The Project Gutenberg eBook of Dr. B. Mure's materia medica, by
Benoît Jules Mure

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Dr. B. Mure's materia medica
       or, provings of the principal animal and vegetable poisons of the
       Brazilian Empire, and their application in the treatment of
       disease

Authors: Benoît Jules Mure
         Charles J. Hempel

Translator: Charles J. Hempel

Release Date: March 22, 2023 [eBook #70350]

Language: English

Produced by: Bryan Ness and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
             generously made available by The Internet Archive/American
             Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DR. B. MURE'S MATERIA
MEDICA ***






                              DR. B. MURE’S
                             MATERIA MEDICA,
                                    OR
          Provings of the principal Animal and Vegetable Poisons
                                  OF THE
                            BRAZILIAN EMPIRE;
            AND THEIR APPLICATION IN THE TREATMENT OF DISEASE.

                        TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH
                                   AND
                          ARRANGED ACCORDING TO
                           HAHNEMANN’S METHOD,
                                    BY
                         CHARLES J. HEMPEL, M.D.
     FELLOW AND CORRESPONDING MEMBER OF THE PENNSYLVANIA HOMŒOPATHIC
           COLLEGE; HONORARY MEMBER OF THE HAHNEMANN SOCIETY OF
                             LONDON, &C., &C.

                                NEW-YORK:
                     WILLIAM RADDE, No. 322 BROADWAY,
        PHILADELPHIA: RADEMACHER & SHEEK.—BOSTON: OTIS CLAPP.—ST.
              LOUIS: J. G. WESSELHOEFT.—LONDON: JAMES EPPS,
            112 GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY.—MANCHESTER:
                        H. TURNER, 41 PICCADILLY.
                                  1854.

        ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1853, by
                              WILLIAM RADDE,
          In the Clerk’s Office, of the District Court, for the
                     Southern District of New-York.


                          HENRY LUDWIG, Printer,
                             45 Vesey-street.




TO THE BRAZILIAN PEOPLE.


Though the precious metals hidden in the Brazilian soil, may be never
so abundant; though the splendor of its precious stones, may be never
so brilliant; though the crops which the soil yields to the farmer, may
be never so rich: yet there are, in the Brazilian empire, treasures
of a far, greater importance, and infinitely more necessary to human
happiness. They are the powerful means which this vast country furnishes
for the cure of disease.

Previous to Hahnemann’s discovery, we were ignorant of a positive method
of determining the use of drugs. We knew that they existed, but we did
not know how to use them; and popular experience, more successful than
the wisdom of the School, had alone picked up a few stray fragments from
the rich harvest which had been abandoned for want of the proper means
of gathering. Providence at last permitted Hahnemann and his disciples
to discover the method of applying remedies to diseases in a positive
and efficacious manner. The dominion of mere palliatives is at an
end.—Homœopathy, by attacking the cause of disease, destroys the chronic
miasms, which are transmitted from generation to generation; dries up
the fountain-heads of epidemic and contagious diseases; enables the
infant-body, by a positive hygiene, to resist the deleterious influences
to which it might be exposed in the course of its existence; and, by
preserving human life, which is the most precious capital of nations
and the first element of their greatness, Homœopathy will insure their
prosperity, provided they adopt it without reserve.

We admire the bold hunter who skims the sharp points of the rocks, for
the purpose of snatching the down from the little ones of the eider; the
indefatigable diver, who, by dint of patient toil, succeeds in bringing
up the diamond from the sands of the river, or the pearl from the bosom
of the sea. Should not the people of Brazil sympathise with the patient
and courageous experimenters, who, under the auspices of Hahnemann,
discover a world of wonderful uses in the neglected products of this
country?

The work which we here offer to the Brazilian people, is not a work of
fiction intended to amuse, but a serious work detailing a series of
painful sensations voluntarily endured by a few devoted men, who were
desirous of finding out the therapeutic uses of the poisonous animals
and plants, the pathogenetic symptoms of which will be found described
in this volume. We shall be amply compensated for the patience and
devotedness which the composition of such a work requires, by the
consciousness that it will do its share in diminishing the sufferings of
mankind.

                                                   B. MURE, _Rio Janeiro_.

NOTE TO THE READER:—The symptoms in the following work, are arranged in
groups of five; the figures in the text indicate the numerical order of
these groups.—ED.




CROTALUS CASCAVELLA.

[Illustration]


We commence the publication of our provings by the symptoms of the
Crotalus Cascavella, not so much on account of the importance of
the symptoms which the poison of this dangerous reptile produces on
the healthy body; but because the unfortunate experiment which was
attempted a few years ago, on a sick person, offers a fair opportunity
of contrasting the hazardous and uncertain results of a merely clinical
experimentation, with the positive advantages of Hahnemann’s method of
proving.

A popular notion,—and the therapeutics of the Old-School was gradually
built up of such notions,—attributed to the poison of the crotalus
cascavella, the power of curing the elephantiasis of the Greeks, a malady
which, in Brazil, goes by the name of _morphea_, or _Lazarus’-evil_.
A disciple of Hahnemann might have verified this belief without any
difficulty, and without endangering human life. But the Old-School who
does not acknowledge our method of proving, had to remain in doubt about
this curative virtue of the cascavella, until a patient and physician
would be found sufficiently bold and logical to apply to a frightful
disease a still more frightful remedy. Mariano José Machado, fell a
victim to his heroic attempt, and, by his death, dissipated the illusory
hopes founded on the curative virtue of the poison of the cascavella.
Now what conclusion shall we draw from this fact? That the practitioner
who advised the attempt, has been imprudent and censureable? God forbid
that we should commit such an act of injustice. A patient has succumbed
to a clinical experiment; let us honor the heroic courage with which he
braved the serpent’s bite; let us honor the zeal of the practitioner,
who persuaded him to risk a few years of a loathsome existence for the
chance, though uncertain, of a cure. The unhappy Machado has been saved a
few years of cruel suffering; but what a joy it would have afforded him
and his miserable fellow-sufferers, if the remedy for their loathsome
disease had been known! what a glory it would have been to the physician
who should have conducted them to the haven of relief![1]

However, a homicide has been committed on this occasion, and though the
perpetrators may be free from blame, yet we may justly condemn the
deceitful science that has to resort to such dangerous practices, in
order to augment its resources and enlarge its boundaries. Like unto the
vile poisoner who, when his poisons fail him, resorts to the stiletto, as
a means of gratifying his cupidity or his ambition, allopathy sacrifices
human life, and, like him, will have an ignominious end. The solemn
homicide, which was committed a few years ago in this capital in the
name of science, may be of use to the world, by hastening the glorious
recognition of the homœopathic healing art, in these distant regions.
If it was permitted as recently as four years ago, when the name of
Hahnemann was scarcely known in this country, to kill a man for the
purpose of trying a drug, we venture to say that, at this period, nobody
would either dare to propose or accept such a murderous practice.

It will be seen, in studying the symptoms which we have obtained from the
poison of the crotalus, that there are very few among them which resemble
the tuberculous lepra, and that this terrible malady will, therefore,
have to be cured by some other means. Fortunately, homœopathy teaches us
the method of discovering a suitable remedy in the place of the crotalus
poison, which we now know has to be abandoned as a remedy for lepra,
and the success which we have already obtained, enables us to indulge
the hope, that the Brazilian lepra, as well as the elephantiasis of the
Arabs, will soon disappear entirely, under the operation of the suitable
dynamised homœopathic agent.

The crotalus will become a useful adjunct to the lachesis proved by
Doctor Hering; it is my belief that it affects the organism longer and
more thoroughly than the latter, and will effect many cures which had to
remain incomplete under the use of lachesis.

The serpent from which this poison has been extracted, was caught in
the province of Ceara. In this operation I was aided by the young
practitioner who alone, four years ago, had protested against the
dangerous experiment which was made in the hospital of the leprous
patients, of which he was at that time chief physician. His noble heart
revolted against the practice of risking human life, for the sake of
a medical doctrine, and, soon after, he imitated the glorious example
which Hahnemann had set him fifty years previous, by abandoning a
lucrative practice, and the direction of two hospitals. Having first
protested against the bite which the reptile was caused to inflict upon
his patient, he now voluntarily exposed his own life for the purpose of
extracting the poison, which was to be suitably attenuated in order to
convert it into a curative agent. Several drops of the poison spirted
on his face, and might have ended his life, if the inner corner of the
eye had been touched as I first feared it was. At this day, when his
suspicions have been abundantly confirmed by the physiological provings,
Dr. J. V. Martins, is one of the firmest adherents of our rising School.
May he live to see the error which he had instinctively rejected,
completely extinguished by the brilliant light of medical truth.

This terrible serpent is found in the province of Ceara, whence it was
brought to Rio Janeiro. This species generally attains a length of from
four to five feet but the animal from which the poison was taken for
our provings, was three feet long. Its oval-triangular head one half of
which is provided with shields, shows a round depression in front of the
eyes, which are covered with a large elliptical shield, serving as a lid.
The body is big, conical, its movements are sluggish; its upper surface
is covered with scales, the dorsal scales being keeled and somewhat
lanceolate, the scales of the tail being quadrangular and smaller. The
belly is provided with one hundred and seventy large transversal plates;
there are twenty-five plates belonging to the tail, the three first of
which are divided in shields. The extremity of the tail is furnished
with seven or eight capsules of the consistence of parchment which,
when agitated, produce a shrill sound. The color of the crotalus is
a yellowish-brown, much lighter under the belly, with twenty-four or
twenty-six regular long rhomboïdal lines on each side of the back. When
irritated and during the excessive heat, the crotalus spreads a very
fetid musk-like odor. The molar teeth which are few in number, but long
and excessively poisonous, are inserted in exceedingly dilatable jaws.
Every body knows that the poison of this reptile acts with a frightful
intensity; and it was not without great danger that Doctors Mure and
Martins succeeded in obtaining a few drops of it, by compressing from the
living animal the gland which secretes it.


FIRST EXPERIMENT.

1. First day: Heavy pain in the back part of the orbit, and at the left
eyebrow.—Second day: Pain under the right orbit and at the forehead,
right side.—Third day: Dry cough with tickling in the throat, at
night.—Fourth day: Headache extending over the forehead and then the
rest of the head. 5. Fifth day: Smell all day like that of the crotalus,
insipid, nauseous, like the odor perceived in a hospital. Sixth day:
Lancinations in various parts of the body.—Seventh day: Contraction with
pressure at the right eyeball which felt as if drawn out.—Eighth day:
Yellowish diarrhœa.—Ninth day: Pain in the middle of the forehead. 10.
Tenth day: Rheumatic pain in the right shoulder.—Eleventh day: Rheumatic
pain in the left wrist.—Twelfth day: Violent cramps in the heel.


SECOND EXPERIMENT.

(The drug is taken at 10 o’clock in the evening.)

_Spitting of black blood._ 15. Prickling all over the body. Starting
during sleep. Sleeplessness. Fright at night, without knowing about
what. 20. Sleep in the morning. The tip of the nose is drawn up as by a
string which is fastened to a central point of the forehead. Tingling in
the throat. Salt taste in the mouth which cannot be removed by drinking
sugar-water. 25. Pulse a little heavy. Small red conical pimples on the
wrist. Painful pulling on the sides of the neck in turning the head.
Feeling of coldness in the stomach, after having eaten. Sensation as if a
peg were sticking in the middle portion of the liver. 30. Aching pain at
the gums, left side. Circular pain round the abdomen, terminating at the
navel. Two lancinations under the right shoulder, as if with a dagger,
arresting the breathing and reverberating in the chest. Sensation as of
a grain of sand in the outer canthi of the eyes. Burning pinching at
the pylorus. 35. Constriction in the thyroid body. Sensation as if the
right lower limb, from the hip to the heel, were shorter; this sensation,
though illusory, causes him to limp. The left eye feels as if drawn
towards the temple. Burning and constriction in the throat.

_Second day_: Pain in the inner head. 40. The feet are cold. The arms are
weak. Contusive feeling at the inner side of the right shoulder-blade.
Painful heaviness in the loins. Appearance of a blue dazzling light
before the eyes. 45. Borborygmi. Painful pressure in the temples. Desire
to vomit. Sensation, below the breasts, of subcutaneous ulceration.
Lancinations in the dorsal spine as from needles. 50. The prover imagines
he hears some one walking behind him. The cranium presses on the brain
on all sides like an iron helmet. Pulling in the pit of the stomach.
Itching on the thighs. Titillating itching in the ears. 55. Swelling
of the right ear. Deafness. Dreams about parties with illuminations;
quarrels, battles. Frontal headache, as if the forehead would split,
with weight above the eyes, especially at night. Pain in the stomach
extending to the navel. 60. Weariness of the arms and lower limbs.
Smarting in the nostrils. _Cutting sensations all round the eyeball as
if cut out with a penknife._ Pain in the left cheek. Sweat and debility
after eating. 65. Greenish spitting in the morning. Sensation in the
head, as if some living being were walking about in a circle. Shocks in
the brain so violent that one is near losing one’s equilibrium. Continual
twitching of the eyebrows, especially the left. Black, bloody froth
around the lips, in the morning. 70. Tongue of a scarlet-red. Jerking in
the fingers. Pain in the elbow as if the bones were pulled. Sensation as
if a thread were rolling in the eye and were pulling the eyeball toward
the temple. Acute pulling in the thigh, with momentary paralysis in the
right pelvic extremity. 75. Acute lancinations in the right temple.
Very thirsty. Belly-ache after drinking. Pressure in the whole abdomen,
in the direction of the navel. The abdomen is exceedingly sensitive.
80. Great desire for food, suddenly passing off at the sight of the
latter. Loathing of meat. Yellow rings around the eyes. Discharge of an
albuminous substance from the rectum, preceded by tenesmus and urging.
Falling of the rectum for ten minutes. 85. Pain in the hollow of the hand.

_Third day._—Pain in the chest which reaches as far as the back.
Sensation as of an opening in the pit of the stomach through which air
passes. Sleeplessness with agitations. Headache as if the forehead would
split. 90. Headache, nosebleed, and excited feeling in consequence of
having been roused from sleep suddenly. Drawing-up of the lower limb from
the hip to the foot, with crampy pain. Leucorrhœa. Small pimples on the
hairy scalp. The toes remain bent. 95. The nails are red. Sensation as
of water in the chest, with efforts to throw it up, and sensation as if
the heart were floating in a liquid. Constant yawning. Itching of the
tongue. Smarting at the tips of the fingers. 100. Sensation as of dust
in the throat. The pimples at first look like flea-bites, after which
they become elevated like little cones and constitute the centres of an
exfoliation less extensive than that caused by the elaps coralinus, with
a little black speck remaining in the middle. Itching in the canthus of
the eye. Acute sensation of burning and redness of the skin which is
perceptibly sunken in at the opening of the right nostril. The prover
imagines he hears some one moan. 105. The thorax and head feel as if
pressed upon by an iron armor. Sensation as of bands round the abdomen.
Pain in the elbows. Pain in the jugular veins when moving the neck.
Abundant discharge of nasal mucus, at night. 110. Foul taste, or taste
as of onions in the mouth until it is rinsed. Burning and prickling at
the tip of the tongue. Swoon which passes off in the open air. Anorexia
all day, and a good deal of appetite in the evening. Pain above the right
breast. 115. The soup falls into the stomach quite suddenly, and lies
there like a stone, with pain in the back. Stitch in the left side when
drawing breath after drinking. Lancinations in the side.

_Fourth day._—Violent lancinations in the uterus while washing one’s-self
with cold water, the lancinations become frightful when using warm water,
with weight at the uterus. Itching under the feet. 120. Formication in
the feet as high up as the ankles. Prickling in the bends of the knees.
Faint feeling at the stomach. While in a clairvoyant state, he speaks to
somebody who does not answer him. 125. Feeling of fright at night. First
the blood is felt rising in the carotid arteries several times; this
is followed by a faint feeling and lastly by a sensation as if a valve
were suddenly opened. Violent blow at the epigastrium. All his limbs
tremble. Chilliness all over which continues even under the bed-cover.
130. Violent ache at the vertex, and sensitiveness of the hairy scalp
to the touch. Extinction of the voice. Great weakness. Depression of
spirits. Suffocative oppression and fear of another paroxysm. 135.
Sensation as if a red-hot iron were sticking in the vertex. The eyelids
feel heavy. Pain in the lower gums as if they had been touched by a
red-hot iron. Excessive weight at the diaphragm. Continual contusive pain
between the two shoulders, and sometimes slow and measured lancinations
when inclining backwards, as if a vertebra had been fractured. 140.
Constrictive pain in the thyroid body as if strung together with a string.

_Fifth day._—Coldness in the back after eating. Drawing from the neck
to the epigastrium. Pain in the right clavicle. Weight on the orbits,
at night. 145. The feet are icy-cold. Headache above the eyes, at ten
o’clock in the morning. Stomach-ache when eating, as if too empty. The
heart feels as if beating from above downwards. Internal pain between the
shoulders. 150. The inner nose is ulcerated. He is pursued all over by
the idea of death, especially when alone. He can only think of death with
great depression of spirits. Ineffectual desire to weep. Lancinations
in the meatus and auditorius. 155. Vermillion-colored metrorrhagia.
Paralysis of the tongue. She stands for ten minutes on the window-sill,
and she is arrested when on the point of precipitating herself out of the
window. She rises suddenly at three o’clock, uttering two shrill cries
and throwing herself forward. The vermillion-colored metrorrhagia with
which she had been affected since the morning, disappears suddenly. 160.
Profuse flow of tears. The hands are cold. The hands tremble. Loss of
memory. Second attack at six o’clock, after which she seats herself in
an arm-chair. 165. Burning forehead. Palpitation of the heart. Weeping.
She plays with her fingers like a child. The suffocative oppression
increases. 170. Magnetic state, she hears nothing, and again sees the
phantom of death, an immense, black, fleshless skeleton; her tears and
mania increase. Vacant stare. Pressive points in the abdomen.

_Sixth day._—Bone-pain and swelling of the left clavicle. Dream about
a horse which is bathed in a pond and gets drowned gradually. 175.
Piteous moaning during sleep. Even while awake one feels as if one were
falling out of bed. Acute pain at the sacro-lumbar articulation. Loss of
consciousness, one hears and sees nothing. Coldness in the back. 180.
Oppression of breathing, as though there were not air enough in the
house. Contraction of the toes. Desire for snow, without desiring either
water or wine. Itching at the epigastrium. Heat in the thighs. 185. She
exclaims several times: he is in the lions’ den, but they will not bite
him. At six o’clock in the evening, another fit of mania. Magnetic state,
during which she does not answer any questions but hears a strange voice
on her left side and behind her; she follows it, and tilts against the
doors which had been closed and which she scratches with her nails. Three
very nearly similar attacks succeed each other, they are occasionally
interrupted by silly laughter and always end with a flood of tears. She
exclaims again: he is in the den, but the lions will not eat him.

_Seventh day._—Fainting from hunger, before eating. 190. Contusive pain
at the occiput. Somnolence the whole morning. Another attack of mental
alienation, she hears voices which she follows, and sheds a flood of
tears. Her head feels heavy, with stupor. The humeral extremity of the
left clavicle continues to swell. 195. Intermittent metrorrhagia twice a
day, and alternating with the paroxysms of mania. Involuntary emission
of urine during sleep. Pain across the umbilical region, with alternate
sensation of spreading out and pinching together. Swelling of the three
last toes of the left foot. Excoriation and pustules on the toes of the
left foot. 200. Suffocative oppression. Pain in the bones, especially
in the joints, at the shoulder-blades, elbows, at the phalanxes of the
fingers, at the knees, hip and under the toe-nails. Pressure at the right
hip as with the blade of a knife. The metrorrhagia ceases. She cannot
bear seeing any one on her right side, without experiencing palpitation
of the heart and a real fatigue from pleasure.

_Eighth day._ 205. Dreams about enormous shaggy spiders walking towards
one and attempting to crawl over one’s person. Pain in the large
psoas-muscle resembling lancinations. Suffocative oppression. A circular
spot between the two breasts which is black at the upper and red at the
lower portion. Hepatic spots of a bright-yellow color, or freckles on the
upper part of the right hands. 210. Small red pimples on the left foot,
like those which appeared on the hand on the second day of the proving.
Obstinate constipation. Lancinations, as if stabbed with a knife, in
the uterus and anus, especially while washing herself with cold water.
Pains in the lower parts of the belly when taking a cold drink. Excessive
sensitiveness of the epigastrium, which does not even allow the pressure
of the clothes. 215. The molar teeth are excessively sensitive and set on
edge. Vomiting after breakfast in consequence of drinking tepid water.
Flushes of heat in the face. Violent itching at the calves. Small red
pimples with a white tip. 220. While drinking cold water, the veins of
the bend of the knee have a deep-black color. Buzzing in the ears while
going down-stairs.

_Ninth day._—Ache, at night, in the upper molares, with inflammation
of the gums. Spitting of blood mixed with thick phlegm. Dreams about
dead persons and phantoms. 225. Loathing of food. Very deaf, after a
month. She feels as though her eyes were falling out. Slight pain under
the lids. Discharge of white mucus from the mouth. 230. Discharge of a
bright-red blood from the nose. The last phalanges feel as if broken. The
tips of the fingers are blue. The nails are bare. Yellow complexion. 235.
Pain in the left side. She feels uncomfortable in consequence of having
her courses, and is out of humor on account of having them. Aversion
to talking; sensitive mood. Desire to move about. 240. She answers all
questions with: no. Small red pimples all over. Tightness of the head,
from above. Cramps in the arms, as if the nerves had been tied up in a
knot during a venesection.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

MORAL AND MENTAL SPHERE: 1. She answers no, whenever she is asked a
question. Sensitive mood. Aversion to talking. Sensation as if one were
falling out of bed, even while awake. 5. Loss of consciousness. She
exclaims: he is in the lions’ den, but they will not bite him. Magnetic
state; she hears a strange voice, follows it and tilts against the doors;
she has three such attacks, occasionally interrupted by laughter and
tears. Ineffectual desire to weep. Loss of memory. 10. Magnetic state;
she hears nothing, and sees a black skeleton. Mania. He thinks he will
die, especially when alone. Depression of spirits. Despair. 15. Anguish.

HEAD: Sensation as of a red-hot iron in the vertex. Lancinations in right
temple. Violent ache at the vertex. Burning forehead. 20. Contusive pain
at the occiput. Tightness of the head, from above. Her head feels heavy,
with stupor. Sensation in the head as if some thing alive were walking
about in a circle. Shocks in the brain. 25. Painful pressure in the
temples. Sensation as if the brain were pressed upon by an iron helmet.
Headache as if the forehead would split, with weight above the eyes.
Pain in middle of forehead. Pain in the interior of the head. 30. Pain
under the right orbit and in right side of forehead. Frontal headache,
afterwards all over the head. Sensitiveness of the having scalp.

EYES: Pain under the lids. Sensation as though her eyes would fall out.
35. Profuse lachrymation. Heavy pain at back part of orbit and left
eyebrow. Vacant stare. Weight on the orbits, at night. The eyelids feel
heavy. 40. Itching of the canthus. Yellow rings round the eyes. Blue
dazzling light before the eyes. Twitching of the eyebrows. Sensation as
if the eyeball were pulled towards the temple by a thread. 45. Sense of a
grain of sand in the outer canthi. The left eye feels as if drawn towards
the temples. Contractive pressure at right eyeball, which felt as if
drawn out. Cutting round the eyeball.

EARS: Buzzing in the ears while going down-stairs. 50. Lancinations in
the meatus auditorius. He imagines he hears some one walking behind him.
Sensation as if some one were moaning. Titillating itching in the ears.
Deafness. 55. Swelling of the right ear.

FACE: Yellow complexion. Alteration of the features. Formication in the
face. Flushes of heat in the face. Pain in left cheek.

NOSE: 60. Ulceration of the inner nose. Discharge of a bloody liquid from
the nose. Sense of burning and redness of the skin, with depression, at
the orifice of the right nostril. Nosebleed. Smarting in the nostrils.
65. Insipid, nauseous smell all day, as in a hospital. The tip of the
nose is drawn up.

TEETH: Pain in lower gums as from a red-hot iron. Aching in the upper
molares, at night, with inflammation of the gums. The molar teeth are
sensitive and set on edge. 70. Aching pain in left gums.

MOUTH: Paralysis of the tongue. Burning and prickling at the tip of the
tongue. Itching of the tongue. Tongue of a scarlet-red. 75. Pain in the
tongue. Spitting of black blood. Spitting of blood, mixed with thick
phlegm. Discharge of white mucus from the mouth. Greenish spitting in the
morning. 80. Black, bloody froth around the lips in the morning. Thick,
viscid saliva which it is difficult to get out.

TASTE AND GASTRIC SYMPTOMS: Salt taste in the mouth, not removed by
drinking sugar-water. Taste as of onions in the mouth, before rinsing
it. Aversion to food. 85. Desire for snow. Desire for food, passing off
on seeing it. Thirst. Fainting from hunger. Coldness in the back after
eating. 90. Anorexia all day. The soup descends into the stomach quite
suddenly, and lies there like a heavy body, with pain in the back.
Stitch in the left side, after drinking when drawing breath. Colic after
drinking. Aversion to meat. 95. Sweat and debility after eating. Desire
to vomit.

THROAT: Constriction of the throat. Sensation of a lump in his throat.
Difficulty of swallowing. 100. Sense of dust in the throat. Burning and
constriction in the throat. Tingling in the throat.

STOMACH: Stomach-ache, when eating, as if too empty. Faint feeling at the
stomach. 105. Pulling in pit of stomach. Sensation of an opening in pit
of stomach, through which air passes. Pain from stomach to navel. Burning
pinching at the pylorus. Feeling of coldness in the stomach, after eating.

ABDOMEN: 110. Sensitiveness of the epigastrium. Pressive points in the
abdomen. Lancing pains in the large psoas-muscle. Pains in lower part of
belly when taking a cold drink. Pain across the umbilical region, with
alternate sensation of spreading out and pinching together. 115. Itching
at the epigastrium. Shock at the epigastrium. Falling of the rectum.
Weight at the diaphragm. Sense of bands round the abdomen. 120. Pressure
in abdomen, towards the navel. The abdomen is sensitive. Discharge of an
albuminous substance from the rectum, preceded by tenesmus. Borborygmi.
Sense of a peg sticking in the middle of the liver. 125. Circular pain
round the abdomen, terminating at the navel.

STOOL: Constipation. Yellowish diarrhœa.

URINARY AND SEXUAL ORGANS: Emission of a deeply-colored urine.
Metrorrhagia (vermillion-colored). 130. Feels uncomfortable in
consequence of having her courses. Metrorrhagia alternating with mania.
Lancination in uterus, especially when washing one’s self with warm
water, with weight at the uterus. Leucorrhœa.

BRONCHIAL SYMPTOMS: Aphonia. 135. Pain in the larynx. Dry cough, with
tickling in the throat, at night.

CHEST: Round spot between the breasts, black above and red below.
Swelling of the humeral extremity of the left clavicle. Palpitation of
the heart. 140. Suffocative oppression. Oppression of breathing, as
from want of air. Bone pain and swelling of the left clavicle. Anxious
breathing. The heart feels as if beating from above downwards. 145. The
thorax feels as if encased in iron. Pain in the right clavicle. Violent
pains in the chest. Pain above the right breast. Sensation of water in
the chest, and as if the heart were floating in a liquid. 150. Copious
sweat on the chest. Ulcerative feeling under the breast.

BACK: Coldness in the back. Slow lancinations between the shoulders,
when inclining backwards. Acute pain at the sacro-lumbar articulation.
155. Internal pain between the shoulders. Contusive pain between the
shoulders. Lancination in the dorsal spine, as from needles. Painful
heaviness in the loins. Contusive feeling at inner side of right
shoulder-blade.

NECK: 160. Constrictive pain in thyroid body. Swelling of the jugular
veins. He feels the blood rise in the carotid arteries, followed by faint
feeling and sensation as if a valve were opening. Drawing from the neck
to the epigastrium. Pain in the jugular veins when moving, the neck. 165.
Constriction in thyroid body. Painful pulling in the sides of the neck
when turning the head.

UPPER EXTREMITIES: Lancinations under the right shoulder arresting
the breathing. The bitten hand and arm are inflamed and very painful.
Sensation of swelling in the forearm. Violent pain in the whole arm.
Weakness of the arms. 170. Cramps in the arms as if the nerves had
been tied up in a knot, during a venesection. Rheumatic pain in right
shoulder. Trembling of the hands. Slight pain in the hollow of the hand.
Pulling pain in the elbows. 175. Pain in the elbows. Enormous swelling
of the hand. Feeling of coldness in the hand. Jerking in the fingers.
Smarting of the tips of the fingers. 180. The tips of the fingers are
blue. The last phalanges feel as if broken. She plays with her fingers.
Nails are red. The nails are bare. 185. Rheumatic pain in left wrist.

LOWER EXTREMITIES: Sensation as if the whole right lower limb were
shorter; this causes him to limp. Acute pulling in the thigh, with
momentary paralysis. Itching on the thighs. Drawing-up of the lower
limb, with crampy pain. 190. Pressure at right hip as from a knife. Heat
in the thighs. Sense of burning heat in the legs. Prickling in the bends
of the knees. Itching of the calves. 195. Cold feet. Sense of coldness in
the feet. The feet are icy-cold. Itching under the feet. Formication in
the feet. 200. The toes remain bent. Contraction of the toes. Swelling of
the three last toes of the left foot. Violent cramp of the heel.

SLEEP: Sudden rising at three in the morning, and uttering two shrill
cries, with throwing herself forward. 205. Dreams about dead persons and
phantoms. Dreams about spiders attempting to crawl over her. Disposition
to slumber. Somnolence, the whole morning. Moaning during sleep. 210.
Involuntary urination during sleep. Dream about a horse which is drowned
in a pond. Yawning. Dreams about illuminations, quarrels. Sleeplessness.
215. Starting during sleep. Fright at night, without knowing about what.

FEVER: Chilliness all over. Sense of chilliness. Pulse heavy. 220. Pulse
98 to 104.

CUTANEOUS SYMPTOMS: Bright-yellow spots on upper part of right hand.
Red pimples on left foot. Red pimples all over. Red pimples with white
tips. 225. Pustules on the left toes. Pimples on the hairy scalp. Pimples
resembling flea-bites, afterwards becoming raised and exfoliating,
leaving a black point in the centre. Red pimples on the wrist.

GENERAL SYMPTOMS: Pain in left side. 230. Trembling of the whole body.
She cannot see any one on her right side without feeling a palpitation of
the heart, and a real fatigue from pleasure. Desire to move about. Pain
in the joints, shoulder-blades, elbows, &c. Trembling of the limbs. 235.
Weakness. Torpor. Pains in the whole body, inducing a moaning. Swoon.
Lancinations in the side. 240. Prickling all over. Weariness of the arms
and lower limbs. Lancinations in various parts of the body.




ELAPS CORALLINUS.

ELAPS. ELAPS VENUSTISSIMUS (SPIX.) VIPERA CORALLINA.

[Illustration]


The elaps corallinus is found quite frequently in the woods all along
the coast of Brazil, and its bite is much dreaded. Its colors are more
brilliant and more agreeably combined than those of any other serpent
in Brazil. Its head is small, covered with large polygonal scales; it
swells behind and is continuous with the neck from which it is scarcely
distinguished as regards size. It has round and small eyes; the jaws
which are little dilatable, are furnished with sharp teeth accompanied
by fangs that rest on the venomous glands. The body is about two
feet and a half in length; it is round, rather big in proportion to
the head, and terminates in a sharp tail. The upper part is covered
with smooth rhomboïdal scales; the belly is covered with two hundred
transverse shields; the tail numbers fifty shields, which are disposed
in two parallel rows. Its colors are disposed in the shape of rings of
a vermillion-red, alternating with black rings, each two rings being
separated by circular lines of a greenish white. The upper part of the
head is black; likewise the first colored ring of the neck; the shields
of the jaws are white, and are separated from each other by black lines.
As in the case of the crotalus cascavella, the poison was taken from the
living reptile, not without danger.

As soon as I had determined to institute provings with the poison of
the cobra-coral, several of these reptiles were, at my request, brought
to me on the same day, so frequent are they in the forests of Sahy. The
animal which I selected was wrapt up in a piece of linen-cloth, and,
after its head had been steadied with a little wooden pin, some eight or
ten drops of poison were pressed out of its jaws by means of a pair of
steel-pincers, which I received on one hundred grains of sugar of milk,
and at once subjected to the process of trituration in my mechanical
mortar. They received six thousand successive turns. One grain of this
mass was triturated a second time, and a grain of this second trituration
a third time, each receiving three thousand turns.

Even while triturating the drug in my mortar, the most striking
effects were produced by the simple emanations ascending from it. This
phenomenon, however, is observed whenever I cause a somewhat active drug
to be triturated in the mortar.

The symptoms which I have collected, are not a great many, but they
can be depended upon. Most of the symptoms were experienced by several
provers, and some of them have already been confirmed by treatment, among
which may be mentioned the oppression in going up-stairs, the vesicular
eruption on the feet and the deafness. This last symptom is of great
importance on account of its being so obstinate. For pulmonary affections
the poison of the cobral may likewise prove a valuable remedy, especially
for the second stage of phthisis, characterised by bloody cough and
derangement of the digestive functions. It may likewise be serviceable in
mental alienation and cutaneous eruptions.

The special action which this poison seems to exercise on the right side,
the paralysis, the lancinations, have appeared to me worthy of attention.
The gyratory motions, the desire to move to and fro, the scaling off of
the epidermis and several symptoms relating to the disposition and the
mind, seem to deserve the attention of the philosophical physician.

There certainly exist remarkable analogies between the symptoms of
the cobral and those of the lachesis. The differences, however, are
sufficiently numerous to refute the doctrine that all serpent-poisons
act almost alike and that the cobral, for instance, may be resorted to
as a perfect succedaneum of the lachesis. I am convinced of the contrary
to such an extent that it is my belief that the poison of serpents alone
would, if sufficiently proved, furnish the safest and most rapid means of
combating all human infirmities. Every epoch in the history of the world
is undoubtedly possessed of therapeutic means which are more particularly
homœopathic to the general character of the ruling maladies. Hence it
is probable that when the human species shall have been freed from the
miasms which now undermine its vitality, the simple flowers on the fields
will be sufficient to control the remaining indispositions. Whereas we,
unfortunate heirs of the chronic miasms of all ages, lepra, scrofula,
syphilis and a host of other subtle plagues, are compelled to employ the
most frightful agents in order to meet the intensity of our diseases.

_First to third day._—1. Reveries in the day-time, one imagines one is
receiving blows. One imagines one hears some one speak. One hears talking
without comprehending. Absence of mind. 5. Nightmare and congestion about
the head. Anxious dreams. Weight in the right parietal region and pain
which penetrates to the nape of the neck. Beating at regular intervals
in the nape of the neck, like the ticking of a clock. Weight in the
forehead and above the orbits. 10. Boring pain from the vertex to the
right eyebrow. Pain on the right side, which seems to be seated in the
cerebellum. Sweat on the forehead and nape of the neck. The head falls
forward with violence. Painful constriction in the temples and eyes. 15.
Violent throbbing of the external carotid. Horrid pains when inclining
the head backwards; less when inclining it forwards. Tension in the nape
of the neck. Stiffness which prevents the head being turned. Sensation
as of a foreign body in the right temple. 20. Lancinations in the outer
angle of the left eye. Boring pain from the lower jaw to the right eye,
and then from the right eyelid to the ear. Desire to close one’s eyes
as in fever. Sharp pricking in the inner canthi of the eyes. Aching
pains around the eyes, with vanishing of sight. 25. Continual buzzing
as from a fly in the meatus auditorius. _Constant deafness._ Ringing in
the ears. Discharge of a serous fluid from the left ear. Distressing
prickling in the superior nasal fossa. 30. Swelling of the gums on the
last three molar teeth. Prickling as if caused by strong spice, after
having triturated the drug. Prickling at the tip of the tongue. Sour
eructations, desire for cold water, ice. Loathing of food, acidity after
every mouthful of food. 35. Pressive constriction in the throat. Burning
from the larynx to the tongue as from peppermint, with desire for fresh
air. The food descends in the œsophagus as if turned round like a screw.
At other times the soup falls heavily and precipitately, as if through
a metallic tube into the stomach, which trembles violently. Watery,
yellowish diarrhœa, which is mixed with slime, attended with rumbling in
the bowels. 40. Urine almost red. Urine profuse. Urine red. Constriction
of the sphincter. Continual discharge of prostatic fluid. 45. Thickening
of the skin of the prepuce, with inflammation. Excoriation on the back
of the penis, which causes a continual itching. Weakness of the genital
powers, impotence. Lancinations and prickings in the penis. Weight and
swelling of the testicles. 50. Spitting of black coagula of blood, with
painful tearing as if proceeding from the heart. Almost constant cough.
Sensation in the chest and at the sternum as if the pleuræ would be
torn off, and as if the two lungs would be separated from each other by
force. Inability to incline to the right side, in consequence of a very
painful pulling in the right lung. Violent itching, drawing, pricking
at the epigastrium, which hinders drawing a full breath. 55. A chronic
loss of breath when going up-stairs, disappears after the second day
of the proving. Violent fit of dry cough which finally ends in raising
black blood, with frightful tearing pains in every part of the lungs,
and especially in the right side, at the upper part of the chest. Taste
of blood in the mouth previous to the paroxysm of cough, succeeded by a
desire to vomit. Burning in the hands while preparing the drug. Prickling
in the back of the right hand. 60. Pulling in the right hand, which
extends to the ring-finger. Pains in the elbows. Crampy constriction
in the phalanxes of the fingers and under the nails. Lancinations and
prickling in the back of the hand. The blood remains congested in the
hand, which is of a violet color and as if paralysed; it has to be kept
erect in order to prevent the congestion. 65. A black blood spirts out
of the finger when pricking it ever so little. Vesicular eruption on the
feet. Pains in the knees. Pains in the knees as if bruised and contused,
especially in the left knee, which does not bear contact, and where the
pain is as keen as if the part had been sprained.

_Third to sixth day._—Sensitiveness _of the right side_. 70. Inability
to rise in the morning in consequence of the pain in the right side.
Slight phlyctænæ make their appearance here and there, especially on
the extremities; the epidermis surrounding them sometimes scales off.
Drowsy the whole day, but sleepless nights. Dreaming about the business
of the day. Pain in the forehead. 75. Red eyebrows. The eye is extremely
sensitive to cold water. Stoppage of the right nostril, improved by
resting on the same side. Bad smell from the nose. Pulling in the
œsophagus. 80. Violent headache, if the desire for food is not satisfied
on the instant. Suffocative oppression after eating. Bloating of the
stomach after eating. Pulling in the pit of the stomach. Violent hunger.
85. Pressure at the right hypochondrium. Pressure in the left side, which
extends to the vertebral column. Dull pain in the right lung, worse when
walking. Congestion of blood to the throat, which is caused by the pain
in the lung. Sense of spraining and stiffness in the knee joint.

_Seventh day._—90. Painful pressure at the nape of the neck, as if the
cerebellum had settled downwards. Eyes red and inflamed. Blood oozes from
the eyes. Glassy look. Bitter, salt taste in the mouth. 95. Noisy and
violent borborygmi. Stitch in the side. Falling of the rectum. Hoarse
voice. Violent beating of the heart. 100. Pain as if bruised in the
sides of the neck. Painful drawing at the inner side of the arm, from
the axilla to the wrist, but felt especially at the bend of the elbow.
The right hand feels as if paralysed. Shuddering from the hand to the
shoulder when dipping the former into cold water. A good deal of distress
in the whole abdomen. 105. The left foot is swollen and blue, with red
spots. Drawing-up of the feet. Twitching in the parotid gland. The saliva
tastes salt. Crusty eruption over the ear and a part of the cheek. 110.
Itching in the ear, in the evening. Red urine, with cloudy sediment.
Pinching sensation at the helix and lobe of the ear. Discharge of a
greenish-yellow liquid from the ear, in the morning. Painfulness of the
parotid gland. 115. Itching pimple on the legs. Discharge of blood from
the ear. Swelling of the inguinal gland. The left groin is painful to
contact. Colic with urging to stool. 120. Blackish and frothy diarrhœa.
The urine is very thick and deposits a red sediment.


SECOND EXPERIMENT.

_First day._—Tension in the nape of the neck and inability to turn the
head. Dark, almost red complexion. Pain in the urethra while urinating.
125. Pricking in the left gums. Desire for food, with aversion to
eating. Lassitude in the limbs. Prickling under the toe-nails. Sense of
excoriation at the nape of neck. 130. Violent pains in the lumbar region,
like a band extending to the uterus. Weight at the uterus. Weight at the
stomach after eating. Acidity, nausea and faint feeling. Weight at the
left side of the uterus. 135. Unquenchable thirst. Feeling of coldness
in the chest after drinking. The lower limbs give way. Pain in the
right instep as after a forced journey. Colic gradually spreading all
through the colon, from the cœcum to the rectum. 140. Sleeplessness with
uneasiness. Weight at the vagina, in consequence of an attack of hysteric
colic. After a continued congestion of the blood to the thoracic
viscera, it seems to rush to the viscera of the abdomen. Prickling in
the uterus, vagina and pubic region, extending to the epigastrium, with
painful lancinations. Lancinations at the umbilicus from above downward,
extending to the womb. 145. Vomiting of green bile, followed by bilious
diarrhœa. Buzzing in the ear. In cleaning the meatus auditorius, small
balls of hardened and black wax are taken from it.

_Second day._—Dull pain in the right lung, worse while walking, with
distress and rush of blood to the throat. Prickling and pulling in the
right lung. 150. Blear-eyedness. Constriction of the thorax as by a
corset. Pressure under the right arm. White, albuminous leucorrhœa.
Sensation as of sand in the eyes. 155. Discharge of white and watery
mucus from the nose. Constant tickling at the nose. Great weight at the
uterus when rising, worse during a walk. Coryza when exposed to the least
current of air; sneezing. Acute contusive pain at the inner side of the
left leg, and sensation as if something were rising and descending in
the tibia. 160. Difficulty of opening the eyes. Sensation as if long and
white filaments were floating before the eyes. In closing the eyes, every
thing looks red, dotted with black points. Itching in the right meatus
auditorius. Stoppage in the œsophagus, after eating, as if a sponge had
lodged there. 165. The beverage is arrested in the œsophagus as by a
spasmodic contraction of this organ, after which it falls heavily into
the stomach. Lancinations from above downward in the posterior muscles
of the trunk, from the occiput to the sacrum, attended with pains in
the temples. Lancinations in the soles of the feet, while seated; they
disappear by walking. Pains in the forehead. Discharge of black blood,
between the menstrual periods. 170. In the morning the hairy scalp, at
the occipital protuberance, feels as if raw. Violent itching in the
vagina. Prickling as with thousands of pins. Aching pain in the left
side. Cramps in the calves, worse in the afternoon.

_Third day._—175. Breakfast agrees pretty well, but the dinner distresses
him. Very sensitive to the cold. Warmth in the hollow of the hand,
after dinner. Coldness in the back. Blear-eyed. 180. Sensation, in the
right eye, of a gauze having a bluish-white or mother-of-pearl color.
Sense of stiffness and spraining in the knee-joint. Disposition to
faint. Sleeplessness or else drowsiness, with distressing dreams about
the business of the day. 185. Lancinations in the vagina. Heat in the
left nostril, and swelling of the nasal septum. Weight in the vagina, on
the left side, and acute pain which prevents her from going up-stairs.
Sensations in the abdomen as of a tube which can suddenly be closed by
means of a valve, and through which a column of some liquid is poured
into the abdomen, where a violent rumbling takes place. The left eyebrow
is painful and drawn down. 190. Eructation tasting like spoiled eggs in
the throat. Lancinations which proceed simultaneously from the groins and
cross each other at the symphysis pubis. Violent diarrhœa, consisting of
sanguinolent mucus and yellow bile, whereas it had been green heretofore.
Sensation, while walking, of a black disk of four inches in diameter,
at the distance of a few paces from the eye. Discharge of black blood
with stool, with acute colic as though the intestines would be twisted
together. 195. Stye at the left eye, with violent lancination. Tickling
and reddish streaks of the sclerotica. Red spot on the knee-pan. Violent
colic as though the intestines would become twisted amongst each other.
Bloody dysentery, followed by sleep. 200. The menses appear before their
regular period. Pressure between the shoulders. Greyish gauze before
the eyes, like a cloud, which becomes thicker; at first it is of the
size of a penny, and spreads until finally it covers the whole field
of vision. Sensation as if an iron bar were pressing on the loins.
Lancination in the stye on the left eye. 205. Lancinations in the dorsal
muscles, especially in raising the arms. The right side is numb and as if
paralysed, from the shoulder to the knee. Pulling at the cardiac orifice,
with sensation of hunger and boring feeling extending to the vertebral
column. Pain in the spinal marrow, from the nape of the neck to the
sacro-lumbar articulation. The neck remains twisted when turning it,
with constriction in the thyroid gland. Crampy constriction at the bend
of the elbow, especially when moving it. 210. Weight in the stomach after
the introduction of food; it turns, with desire to vomit. Constrictive
pain at the bend of the elbow and knee. Itching in the meatus auditorius.
This itching spreads in the interior of the cheek all along the duct of
steno. Watery saliva. 215. The viscous saliva is more abundant. Changing
one’s position is painful, one would like to remain seated or lying.
Diarrhœa consisting of undigested food. The teeth are loose; one is
unable to chew bread. Loose cough.

_Fourth day._—220. Complete paralysis of the right side, with inability
to rise in the morning. Violent itching in the left eye. Complete
blindness for five minutes. The right hand is benumbed; a stitch is felt
through the thickness of the metacarpus. Smarting under the nails. 225.
Painful drawing at the inner part of the arm, from the axilla to the
wrist; but especially distressing at the spot where the prover had been
bled. Small red tetter at the corner of the right nostril, spreading
to the cheek, with tickling. Stoppage of the nostrils, one has to
breathe by the mouth. Suffocative oppression while eating. 230. Violent
distress throughout the thoracic viscera. Cyanosis and reddish spots of
the extremities. Violent itching under the axilla, and appearance of a
tetter. The blood rushes to the right hand, which is of a violet color
and as if paralysed. Shuddering up to the shoulder when dipping the
hand in water. 235. The arm and hand are swollen, blueish, and covered
with red spots, likewise the right leg and foot. Cramps in the whole of
the right side. Cramps in the calves. Swelling of the stomach. Acute
lancinations, from time to time, in the fourth toe of the left foot, as
if pierced by a needle. 240. Quick and transitory lancinations in the
back, sides and arms. Pain at the roots of the hairs on the occiput.
Fruit and cold drinks lie in the stomach like ice. Sudden colic, with
diarrhœa. Lancinations and stitches in the upper part of each lung.
245. Bloat in the region of the diaphragm. After taking a cold drink,
shuddering from the head to the feet, and chattering of the teeth.
Lancinations in the inner side of the knee. Lancinations from the root of
the nose to the ear. Sensitiveness in the pit of the stomach. 250. The
tips of the fingers peel off, which is painful. Redness and pain under
the nails, the parts look as if raw. Biting one’s hand during sleep,
without waking. Pressure between the shoulders. Liquids descend in the
œsophagus with a sound like glou-glou. 255. The nose continues to swell
and the pain extends to the ear. Prickling in the eyebrows, especially
the left. Acute pain in the iliac bone, on the right side, as though the
crest were swollen and the periosteum inflamed. The right leg up to the
knee is cold as ice. Frontal headache. 260. Discharge of black, liquid
blood from the bowels. Borborygmi and noisy flatulence. Constriction of
the sphincter, a quarter of an hour after the discharge. The peristaltic
motion of the intestines takes place from below upwards; the blood
seems to flow backwards in the abdomen, with violent pain and frightful
palpitations, succeeded by lancinations which prevent walking.

_Fifth day._—Dreams about dead persons; she kisses dead persons, falls
into pits where her feet get entangled; she walks sideways. 265.
Quarrelsome, irritable mood, with agitation of the mind. Good appetite.
The heel begins to peel off the same as the fingers. While dreaming she
bites her forearm. Vertigo so as to fall forwards. 270. Sensation as
if falling forward, though the prover remains immoveable. When raising
the hand to the right side of the nape of the neck, a penetrating pain
is felt which spreads to the ear. Stitch in the side, a whole day. The
breathing through the nose is interrupted. One hears some one talking.
275. Violent itching of the hairy scalp.

_Sixth day._—Strange illusion of hearing; she heard whistling and
ringing, and rises to see where it is. Frightful dreams; she buries a
dead person and, with a knife, digs about in his wounds. Afterwards the
experiences a burning remorse and sheds a flood of tears. She dreams
that she has a fight with a man condemned to the galleys. 280. Desire to
strike and pick a quarrel. Mental excitements. Itching of the soles of
the feet, which continue to peel off. Small pimple with a good deal of
itching. Slight discharge of a clear mucus from the urethra. 285. At the
least contrariety the body shudders and the blood boils, with pricklings.
Lassitude in all the limbs.

_Seventh day._—Desire to go to the country and play about in the
grass. Desire to be alone; for days she remains in the corner of the
anti-chamber. Sound sleep. Plans about travelling, &c. 290. She hears
distant whistling. Bread tastes flat, like the triturated poison which
had been swallowed for the purpose of proving it. She wants to leave the
house at the moment when she is going to bed. She retires to a distant
room to work. Irresistible desire to cry out with all her might. 295.
Loathing of meat, bananas, and particularly bread. Desire for oranges,
acids, and especially for sour beef. Profuse cold sweat all over the body.

_Eighth day._—During a whole month, bread does not mix up with other
food, it returns by the nose the whole day, whereas the other kinds of
food are either digested naturally or thrown up again by the mouth.
Metrorrhagia. 300. Violent aversion to light; one prefers to be in the
dark. Violent diarrhœa, continued. Breaking out of little pimples with an
oval base, they dry up and are followed by desquamation of the epidermis.

_Ninth day._—Complete loss of appetite, she eats nothing but oranges.
Bruising pain in the upper portion of the deltoid muscle, as if she
had received a violent blow on the shoulder. 305. Tongue black or of a
dark-red color. The tetter at the wing of the nose peels off. Yellow,
irregular spots on the hand and around the fingers, over a considerable
space. A red, transversal bar of an inch in thickness is seen in opening
the eyes, and a red disk when shutting them. Boils on the arm. 310.
Profound ennui. Depression of spirits; desire to be in a deep cavern,
where nobody can be seen. Absence of thought. Complete loss of one’s
self, so that the time passes away without one being conscious of it in
the least.

_Tenth day._—After eating an orange and bread, the orange returns by the
mouth and the bread by the nose. 315. Coldness at the back part of the
thighs. Furfuraceous tetter and itching at the hairy scalp. She feels
hungry and yet is unable to eat. Small miliary pimples upon a red base
at the corner of the nose. Violent hunger. 320. Burning in the stomach
which extends to the duodenum. Suffocative oppression after eating. Pain
in the right side, as if in the pleura, striking to the axilla. Constant
hunger which cannot be appeased on account of the continual vomiting.
Small suppurating pimples on the hands, fingers, wrists, gums, at the
inside of the cheeks. 325. Violent itching at the abdomen, especially
while walking. Innumerable white pimples at the inside of the thighs,
which get inflamed in the day-time and prevent one from walking in the
evening. Burning of the eyebrows. Drowsy in the day-time, especially at
two o’clock, and sleepless at night. Tickling at the root of the nose,
as from worms. 330. Tongue swollen and whitish, in the morning. Bloating
around the eyes which appear sunken in the morning. The arterial blood
spirts from the nose and ears. Formication at the anus as if a worm were
gnawing at the parts. Suppression of urine. 335. Tickling and frightful
formication at the vulva. Very thirsty; desire for milk. Cold sweat all
over. Slow digestion, one has to drink after every mouthful that one
swallows. Excessive horror of rain. 340. Discharge of a black blood from
the womb. Noise as from a valve closing in the trachea and causing a
column of air to ascend to the pharynx.

_Eleventh day._—Discharge of blood from the ear. The bread returns by the
nose.

_Twelfth day._—Loathing of bread and other food. 345. Decided taste for
oranges and salad. Watery vomiting in the morning. Ellyptical pimples
full of serum. Acute pains in the descending colon. Small red pimples at
the tips of the fingers.

_Thirteenth day._—350. The gums become loose near to the roots of the
teeth. The intestines seem to turn violently about one other, after which
they feel for a few moments as if twisted together like a cord, and then
are suddenly strung together as by a knot, causing a sensation as if the
abdomen would be choked from side to side. Extreme sensation of coldness
after drinking and as if ice-water were rising and descending through a
cylindrical opening in the left lungs. Vomiting of food.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

MENTAL AND MORAL: 1. He imagines he is receiving blows. Absence of mind.
Horror of rain. Complete forgetfulness of one’s-self. 5. She wants to go
out at the moment of retiring to bed. Irresistible desire to cry out.
Vertigo, she falls forwards. Depression of spirits, she desires to be
in a cavern, alone. Desire for country-air and sport. 10. Desire for
solitude. Plans about travelling, &c. Quarrelsome.

HEAD: Pain in cerebellum, right side. The hairy scalp at the occipital
protuberance feels raw, in the morning. 15. Painful constriction in the
temples and eyes. Horrid pains when inclining the head backwards. Weight
in forehead. Weight in right parietal region and pain penetrating to the
nape of the neck. Sensation as of a foreign body in right temple. 20.
Pain in the forehead. Boring pain from vertex to right eyebrow. Pain at
the roots of the hairs on the occiput. Itching of the hairy scalp.

FACE: Dark complexion. 25. Itching in the ear and cheek. Lancinations
from the root of the nose to the ear. Boring pain from the lower jaw to
the right eye, and then from the right eyelid to the ear.

EAR: Pinching at helix and lobule. Itching in the ear. 30. The cerumen is
hardened and black. Itching in the right meatus. Deafness. Illusion of
hearing, she hears a whistling and ringing. He imagines he hears some one
speak. 35. Ringing. Constant buzzing in the meatus. Buzzing. Discharge of
a serous fluid from the left ear. Discharge of blood from the ear. 40.
Discharge of a greenish-yellow liquid from the ear, morning.

EYES: Stye at left eye, with lancination. Tickling and red streaks of
the sclerotica. The left eyebrow is painful and drawn down. Blood
oozes from the eyes. 45. Blindness for some minutes. Violent itching
in the left eye. Prickling in the eyebrows. Aversion to light. Burning
of the eyebrows. 50. Bloating around the eyes, in the morning. Aching
pain around the eyes, with vanishing of sight. Sharp prickling in the
inner canthi. Desire to close one’s eyes. Lancination in outer canthus
of left eye. 55. The eye is sensitive to cold water. Red eyebrows. Eyes
red and inflamed. Difficulty of opening the eyes. Sand in the eyes. 60.
Blear-eyed. Glassy look. Sensation in the right eye as of a gauze of a
blueish-white or mother-of-pearl color. Black disk at a few feet from the
eye, when walking. Greyish gauze before the eyes, gradually spreading
over the whole field of vision. 65. Red bar before the eyes when opening
them, and a red disk when shutting them. When closing the eyes, every
thing looks red, dotted with black points. Sense of long, white filaments
before the eyes.

NOSE: Tickling at the nose. Stoppage of right nostril. 70. Bad smell from
the nose. Distressing prickling in the superior nasal fossa. Tickling at
the root of the nose. Swelling of the nose, with pain extending to the
ear. Stoppage of the nostrils. 75. Heat in left nostril, and swelling of
the septum. White and watery mucus is discharged from the nose.

TEETH: The teeth are loose. Prickling in left gums. Swelling of the gums
on the last three molares. 80. Looseness of the gums at the roots of the
teeth.

MOUTH: Salt tasting saliva. Bitter, salt taste in mouth. Prickling at the
tip of the tongue. Tongue swollen and whitish, in the morning. 85. Tongue
black or dark-red.

THROAT: The beverage is arrested in the œsophagus as by a spasmodic
contraction of this organ, after which it descends like a heavy weight.
Pulling in the œsophagus. Constriction with pressure, in the throat.
Sensation as if the food turned like a screw while passing down. 90.
Burning as from peppermint, from the larynx to the tongue. Sensation
as of a valve in the trachea causing a column of air to ascend in the
pharynx. Stoppage in the œsophagus, after eating, as if a sponge had
lodged there.

GASTRIC SYMPTOMS: Vomiting of green bile, followed by bilious diarrhœa.
Weight at the stomach, after eating. 95. Acidity, with nausea and faint
feeling. Violent thirst. Cold feeling in the chest, after drinking.
Desire for food, with aversion to eating. Desire for food causing
a violent headache, unless satisfied at once. 100. Violent hunger.
Suffocative oppression after eating. Bloating of the stomach after
eating. Acidity after every mouthful of food. Aversion to food. 105.
Desire for cold water, ice. Sour eructation. Sense of coldness after
drinking, as if ice-water were rising and descending through an opening
in the left lung. She has to drink after every mouthful she swallows.
Watery vomiting in the morning. 110. She feels hungry, but is unable
to eat. Hunger, with continual vomiting, preventing one from appeasing
the hunger. Aversion to meat, bread. Desire for oranges, acid. Loss
of appetite. 115. Bread returns by the nose, and does not mix up with
the other kinds of food, for a month. Bread tastes flat, like the
poison. Fruit and cold drinks feel like ice in the stomach. Shuddering
and chattering of the teeth, after taking a cold drink. Suffocative
oppression while eating. 120. Eructations tasting like spoiled eggs.
The dinner distresses him. Pulling in pit of stomach. The food descends
violently into the stomach, which trembles.

STOMACH: Burning in the stomach. 125. Sensitiveness of the pit of the
stomach. Swelling of the stomach. Pulling at the cardiac orifice, with
sense of hunger and boring to the spine. Weight in stomach, with desire
to vomit, after eating.

ABDOMEN: Lancinations from the navel to the womb. Pains in the loins as
from a band, extending to the uterus. Colic spreading from the cœcum
to the rectum. Swelling of the inguinal glands. Colic, with urging to
stool. Borborygmi. 130. Falling of rectum. Distress in abdomen. Pressure
in right hypochondrium. Itching, drawing and pricking at epigastrium,
hindering breathing. The intestines turn about one another, and then feel
twisted as by a cord, and strung together in a knot, with strangulating
sensation in the abdomen. 140. Formication at the anus, as from worms.
Acute pains in the descending colon. Itching at the abdomen, especially
when walking. Sensation as if the blood in the abdomen were flowing
backwards, with violent pain and palpitations, succeeded by lancinations.
Sudden colic, with diarrhœa. 145. Bloat in region of diaphragm. Sense of
an iron bar pressing on the loins. Sensation in the abdomen as of a tube
which can be closed by a valve and through which liquid is poured into
the abdomen. Lancinations from both groins to the symphysis pubis.

STOOL: Blackish and froth, diarrhœa. 150. Lienteria. Constriction of
the sphincter. Watery, yellowish diarrhœa, with slime, also rumbling.
Discharge of black, liquid blood from the bowels. Constriction of the
sphincter, after bloody stool. 155. Bloody dysentery. Diarrhœa consisting
of bile and bloody mucus. Discharge of black blood at stool, with colic
as though the bowels would be twisted.

URINARY AND SEXUAL: Red urine, with cloudy sediment. Thick urine with red
sediment. 160. Pain in urethra while urinating. Red urine. Suppression
of urine. Discharge of mucus from the urethra. Itching excoriation on
the back of the penis. 165. Impotence. Lancinations and prickings in
the penis. Weight and swelling of the testes. The skin of the prepuce
is thick and inflamed. Discharge of prostatic fluid. 170. Discharge of
black blood between the menses. Prickling in the uterus, vagina and pubic
region. White, albuminous leucorrhœa. Weight at the uterus. Weight at the
vagina, after an attack of hysteric colic. 175. Horrid formication at the
vulva. Discharge of black blood from the womb. Metrorrhagia. Itching in
the vagina. Premature menses. 180. Weight in the vagina, with acute pain
preventing her from going up-stairs.

BRONCHIAL: Coryza from the least currents of air. Constant cough. Fit
of dry cough which ends in raising black blood, with tearing pains in
every part of the lungs and especially in right side, superiorly. Taste
of blood in mouth before coughing. 185. Loose cough. Hoarseness. Chronic
loss of breath on going up-stairs. Violent distress in the chest.
Sensation as if the pleura would be torn, and as if the lungs would be
split by force.

CHEST: 190. Spitting of black blood, with painful tearing as if
proceeding from the heart. Constriction of the chest. Stitches in upper
part of each lung. Painful pulling in right lung on which account he is
unable to lean to the right side. Dull pain in right lung, worse when
walking. 195. Dull pain in right lung, worse when walking, with rush of
blood to the throat. Prickling and pulling in right lung. Palpitation of
the heart.

BACK: Lancinations in the dorsal muscles. Pain in the whole spinal
marrow. 200. Pressure between the shoulders. Coldness in the back.
Lancinations from the occiput to the sacrum, with pain in the temples.

NECK: Sense of excoriation at the nape of the neck. Painful pressure
at nape of neck. 205. The parotid glands are painful. Bruising pain in
sides of neck. Twitching in the parotid glands. Tension in nape of neck.
Stiffness of the neck. 210. Beating in the nape of neck, like the ticking
of a clock. Throbbing of the external carotid. When raising the hand to
the right side of the neck, a penetrating pain in feet, spreading to the
ear. The neck remains twisted when turned.

UPPER EXTREMITIES: Painful drawing at the inner side of the arm. 215.
Itching under the axilla, with tetter. The arm and hand are swollen,
blueish, covered with red spots, also the right leg and foot. Bruising
pain in the deltoid muscle. Painful drawing from axilla to wrist, at
inner side. Crampy constriction at the bend of the elbow. 220. Pains in
the elbows. Warmth in the hollow of the hand, after dinner. The right
hand feels numb, with a stitch through the metacarpus. The hand looks
congested, and is as if paralysed. Lancinations in the back of the hands.
225. Pulling in right hand. Prickling in the back of the right hand.
Burning in the hands while preparing the drug. The right hand feels as if
paralysed. Smarting under the nails. 230. The tips of the fingers peel
off. Redness and pain under the nails, the parts look as if raw. Crampy
constriction in the phalanxes and under the nails.

LOWER EXTREMITIES: The lower limbs give way. Acute pain in the right
iliac bone, as though the crest were swollen and inflamed. 235. Coldness
behind the thighs. Cramps in the calves. Lancination at inner side of the
knee. Cramps in the calves. Icy-coldness of the right legs. 240. Pains
in the knees, especially the left, as if bruised and contused. Sense of
spraining and stiffness in the knee-joint. Contusive pain at inner side
of left leg, with sensation as if something were rising and descending
in the tibia. The soles of the feet itch and peel off. Drawing-up of the
feet. 245. The left foot is swollen and blue, with red spots. Pain in
the right instep, as from walking. Lancinations in the soles of the feet
while seated, ceasing when walking. Dartings in the left fourth toe, now
and then. The heel peels off. 250. Prickling under the toe-nails.

FEVER: Sensitive to cold. Sweat on the forehead and nape of neck. The
arm shudders when dipping the hand in water. Shuddering of the arm when
dipping the hand into cold water. 255. Cold sweat all over.

SLEEP: Sleeplessness with uneasiness. Drowsy all day, no sleep at night.
Dreams about previous business. Nightmare, with congestion about the
head. 260. Anxious dreams. She dreams that she buries a dead person and
digs in his wounds with a knife. She dreams that she is fighting with a
man condemned to the galleys. She bites his hand during sleep. Dreams
about dead persons, she kisses them and falls into pits. 265. Dreams
about business.

CUTANEOUS: Red spot on the knee-pan. Boils on the arm. Crusty eruption
on the ear and cheek. Itching pimple on the legs. Vesicular eruption on
the feet. 270. Phlyctænæ here and there, especially on the extremities.
Pimples full of serum. Red pimples at the tips of the fingers. Miliary
pimples at the corner of the nose, upon a red base. Furfuraceous tetter
at the hairy scalp. 275. Suppurating pimples on the hands, fingers,
wrists, gums, &c. Numerous white pimples at the inside of the thighs,
inflamed in the day-time. Little pimples, followed by desquamation.
Yellow spots on the hand and fingers. Red tetter from the corner of the
right nostril to the cheek.

GENERAL: 280. Lassitude in the limbs. Congestion first to the chest, then
the abdomen. Stitch in the side. Pressure in left side, extending to the
vertebral column. Black blood spirts out of the finger when pricked.
285. The right side feels sensitive, with inability to rise in the
morning. Prickling as by spice, after triturating the drugs. Spirting of
arterial blood from the nose and ears. Pain in the right side, up to the
axilla. Stitch in the side. 290. Lassitude in all the limbs. At the least
contrariety the body shudders and the blood boils, with prickling. Cramps
in the right side. Quick lancinations in the back, sides and arms. The
extremities look blue, with reddish spots. 295. Paralysis of the right
side. The right side is numb and as if paralysed. Constrictive pain at
the bend of the elbow and knee. A change of position is painful. Aching
in left side. 300. Disposed to faint.




PEDICULUS CAPITIS (COMMON LOUSE).


It is scarcely necessary to give a description of this species which
is sufficiently known; we shall content ourselves with indicating the
principal characteristics which distinguish it from the other vermin
living on the surface of the human body. The louse is of an oval form;
flattened, longer than the crab-louse; its head is very small; its
thorax is composed of three not very distinct rings; the abdomen is all
of one piece, rounded off on the sides; it is ash-colored, whereas the
crab-louse is entirely white. The lice which have been made use of in our
provings, were taken from the head of a healthy child of five years.

Even before undertaking this experiment we expected to derive from it
important results. We entertained the belief that nature pointed out to
us the louse as a specific for the hereditary psora, in which belief we
were strengthened by the fact that psorin develops the lice-malady in
healthy persons. And we are now prepared to affirm that we have found the
louse one of the most useful agents in diseases of children. We offer the
following pathogenesis with a sincere pleasure which none but those who
devote themselves to such patient investigations, can appreciate.[2]


SYMPTOMATIC ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

MORAL AND MENTAL: 1. Depression of spirits. Dulness of feeling. Merry in
the evening. Very merry. 5. Irascible. Sad without cause. Sensation as if
raised off the ground by the hair. She is waked in the night by an attack
of dizziness, and inability to open the eyes. Dizziness while walking;
the cerebellum feels compressed, with beating and an acute pain on rising
in the morning.

HEAD: 10. Frontal headache. Headache at intervals, and abating all at
once. Headache in the evening. Heaviness of the head. Dulness of the
head, on rising, with beating in the right temple. 15. Heaviness at the
vertex. Violent headache, with dizziness and nausea, in the forenoon.
Violent headache, worse on stooping. Headache, with nausea, when walking.
Violent headache, and darting in the forehead, when walking. 20. Dull
pain in the head, on rising from bed. Headache and pressure at the
nasal eminence. Lancinations in the forehead. Dartings in the forehead.
Dartings in the right parietal bone. 25. Intermittent dartings in the
head, worse when stooping. Heat about the head. Itching of the hairy
scalp, in front. Contraction of the hairy scalp. Itching of the left
temple. 30. Itching of the hairy scalp. Shuddering over the left side of
the hairy scalp. Falling of the hair.

FACE: Dark complexion. Warmth of the face, afternoon. 35. Itching of the
beard. The face is red and bloated. Sweat in the face. Scarlet-redness
of the face. Itching at the right lower part of the face. 40. Heat in
the face. Tingling pain in the right cheek. Itching of the face and hairy
scalp. The left cheek is swollen.

NOSE: Tickling and prickling at the left wing of the nose. 45.
Inflammation of the nasal fossæ. Dartings in the root of the nose.
Itching of the tip of the nose.

EARS: Itching in the left ear, evening. Buzzing in the ears. 50. Hot
ears. Itching of the right ear. Whizzing in the ears, when whistling.
Cracking in the right ear, when eating.

EYES: Itching of the left eyelid. 55. Rings around the eyes. Dilatation
of the pupils. Smarting of the eyes as from weeping. The eyes feel weary,
are red and smart. Sensation as of sand in the eyes. 60. Smarting around
the eyes.

TEETH: The lower jaw feels tired, as from chewing too much. Dartings in
the right upper molares.

MOUTH: The lips are black and cracked. Dry, swollen and red lips. 65.
Burning and prickling on the border of the tongue, which is red and
cracked.

GASTRIC: Hunger, with inability to swallow; the pharynx seems to
contract, followed by fainting and desire to vomit, at noon. Aversion
to food. Constant nausea in the evening. Difficult digestion, with
contraction of the stomach. 70. Colic and diarrhœa after dinner.

THROAT: Sore throat, getting worse until evening. Scraping in the throat.
Sore throat every evening. Transitory choking, especially after supper.
75. Dryness of the throat. Scraping at the tonsils, when swallowing. Sore
throat, with constriction of the pharynx. Constant swallowing of saliva.

STOMACH, &c.: Stomach-ache, and dartings in the umbilical region. 80.
Violent colic. Slight colic.

STOOL: Soft stool, in the evening. Diarrhœa evening and next morning.
Hard and scanty stool.

URINARY, GENITAL, &c.: 85. Frequent and copious discharge of a watery,
yellow-greenish urine. Red urine. Yellow, clear urine. Frequent and
copious micturition. Continual erection, without desire. 90. Leucorrhœa.
Shifting pain in the uterus, in the evening. Painful stitch in the
uterus. Painful dartings, heat and itching in the uterus.

BRONCHIAL, CHEST: Thirst with hoarseness, towards evening. 95. Dry and
convulsive cough. Numbness while drawing breath. Pain in the breasts,
when drawing breath. Pain in the chest, worse when touched. Oppression on
the chest, in the evening.

BACK: 100. Tickling at the nape of the neck and between the shoulders.
Itching of the nape of the neck and back. Frequent pain in the loins,
when standing. Itching of the back.

EXTREMITIES: Bruising pain on the shoulders and arms. 105. Darting at the
arms. Itching of the forearm, in the evening. Pain in the bend of the
right arm. Itching of the forearm, in the evening. Tickling at the left
wrist. 110. Tickling at the wrists. Darting in the back of the left hand.
Itching at the backs of the hands. Itching of the back of the hand, with
redness and swelling of the veins. Tremor of the hands. 115. Darting and
itching at the first phalanx of the middle-finger. Tingling in the tips
of the middle and index fingers. Itching at the ring-finger. Itching of
first phalanx of right index-finger. Redness and itching at the right
hip. 120. Itching as from nettles in the bend of the thigh. The skin on
the left thigh peels off. Weakness of the lower limbs. The knee and upper
portion of the left lower limb feel tired. Violent lancination above the
left knee-pan. 125. Beating above the left knee-pan. Weariness of the
knees, especially the left, in the evening. Intense itching at the right
instep. Cold sweat at the feet, followed by excessive coldness, in the
evening. Ganglion under the foot, hard, swollen, and painful when walking.

SLEEP, FEVER: 130. Yawning. Drowsy. Uneasy sleep. Restless night.
Frequent waking. 135. Dreams about a mob, then amorous dreams with an
emission. Confused dreams about being pursued. He dreams that he is
dissecting one of his friends. He dreams that he sees people skate on the
Seine, in summer. She dreams that she sees acquaintances walk on water.
140. She dreams that she is sick in a dirty hospital, full of vermin;
water flows from her mouth. Dream about large-lice. She dreams that she
sees a large, black figure flying to the clouds. He dreams that he is
to die in a prison, whence he escapes by crawling out. Shuddering all
over, eight or ten times in succession. 145. Shuddering in the evening.
Shuddering and twitching. Fever.

CUTANEOUS: Pimples in the face, on the forehead, temples, chin, &c.,
vesicular with a black point in the centre. Miliary pimples at the nape
of the neck, on a red base. 150. Red pimples on the hands, passing off
soon. Red, inflamed pimples on the temples, shoulders, arms, legs.
Inflamed pimples on the back, red all around, white in the middle, with
a black point in the centre. Red inflamed pimples in the face, evening.
Smarting pimples on the back, white at their tips. 155. Red inflamed
pimples on the left shoulder and arm. White blotches above the left
breast. A number of small pimples on the left knee, black at the centre.
Small red pimples on the feet, on taking them out of the warm water. Red
pimples on the shoulders. 160. Small red pimples and itching on the right
calf. Red pimples with a black point in the middle, on the right side of
the neck. Miliary pimples on the calves, with itching. Miliary eruption
at the inside of the thighs, with itching. Former pimples at the nape of
the neck reappear. 165. Miliary pimples at the inside of the arms. White
pimples on the forehead.

GENERAL: Increase of physical strength. Swelling of the breasts, face,
and then of the whole body. Itching all over. 170. Face, hands and
feet look red. Tickling all over. Starting when sitting or lying in
the evening. Prickling all over, the whole day. Prickling all over,
especially at the front part of the thigh. 175. Weariness, dizziness,
faint feeling. Shivering, heat and dryness of the extremities. Itching of
the skin. Heaviness. Itching here and there, at night.




ELEIS GUINEENSIS. (JACQ.)

ELE.—PALM-TREE.

[Illustration]


This species is spread all over South-America; it prefers cultivated
and sunny regions. Its trunk, which is from 25 to 30 feet high, is
covered by the persistent bases of the leaves. The top-leaves form a
thick tuft; they are large, pennate, with numerous folioles, ensiform,
alternate and sessile, attached to a strong rachis or spike the petioler
portion of which is garnished with long and sharp prickles. The flowers
are monœcious with a papyraceous perianthus having six divisions. The
male flowers have six stamens and three internal, erect and converging
folioles. They form ramose spathes in fusiform masses, placed between
the bases of the leaves. The female flowers are scattered; the ovary is
sub-cylindrical, surmounted by a short style with a bilobate stigma. The
fruit is oval, oleaginous, of a reddish yellow, surrounded by a hard and
angular pericarp. We have had it drawn of a large size in comparison to
the tree.

The fruit is triturated.

_First day_ (in the morning).—1. Ennui when alone. Bitter eructations.
Nausea. Drowsiness in the day-time. 5. Heat in the face. Throbbing pain
in the nape of the neck. (In the afternoon): pain in the middle of the
chest, as if pricked by pins. The breathing is embarrassed. Hammering
pain all through the head. 10. Vacillating gait. Loss of appetite.
Beating at the left arm, as if drumming on it with the finger.

_Second day._—Swelling of the right leg. Pain at the foot when walking,
whenever the foot touches the ground. 15. The same pain is felt when
touching the sole of the foot with the hand. Itching all over. He feels
strong and healthy. Small vesicles on the swollen leg. They break when
pressed upon, a little fluid spirting out. 20. Similar vesicles break
out on the left leg, arm and on various other parts of the body, without
any swelling. Merry mood, and laughter, even when alone. Remembrance
of a former shipwreck. Pain at the right knee as from a blow. Pains at
the right leg as if stung. 25. Continual itching all over. Pain as if
contused at the right side of the chest. Swelling, roughness and itching
of the skin of the right leg. The skin seems to be thicker. Acute pain at
the lower past of the left leg, as if a penknife had been thrust in.

_Third day._—30. The leg is less swollen. Colic after taking a cold
drink. Sadness. Pain at the bend of the knee, as from a blow. Desire to
vomit. 35. Violent colic. Weakness of the legs. At candle light the sight
becomes confused; when writing he makes the letters much larger than
usual. Throbbing pain in the calves. Breathing embarrassed, with a sigh.
40. Hammering pain at the tibia, nape of the neck and right foot. Pains
in the right shoulder, as from a blow. The sight is weaker than before.
Shuddering. White urine. 45. Blackish stool. Constrictive pain around
the neck as if a string were tied round. Good appetite. Out of humor.
Disobedient. 50. Wants to cry (weep).

_Fourth day._—The foot swells up more and more. Hammering pain in the
foot all the time. Lancinations in the throat when swallowing. Pain in
the abdomen, with sensation as if bruised. 55. Throbbing toothache.
Prickling in the larynx when drawing breath. He approaches his hand to
the fire without burning himself, whereas another person got burnt at
the same distance. An hour after, he feels very keenly that he had been
burnt. Stinging pain in the throat when swallowing saliva.

_Fifth day._—60. Bad smell in the mouth, after drinking water. Cough with
lancinations in the sides. Heat in the tongue when taking dinner, so
violent that he was obliged to stop eating.

_Sixth day._—The swelling of the leg increases. The vesicles on the right
leg and foot have dried. Other vesicles break out on the left leg and arm.

_Tenth day._—65. After a complete disappearance of all the symptoms, he
smells of the drug and afterwards takes 10 drops of the mother-tincture.
After taking them, bad smell in the mouth. Foul eructations. Merry mood.
Hammering in the temple. 70. Lancinations in the right side of the chest,
every 5 minutes, less during rest. Breaking out of vesicles which are
full of water and larger than the former ones. Itching every 5 minutes,
especially at the legs. On each side of the pit of the stomach the skin
appears thicker, with pain in the last false ribs as if a peg were stuck
in there.

_Eleventh day._—Swelling of the right eye. 75. He is unable to look at an
object steadily. Lancinations in various parts of the body, especially
when going down-stairs. Tumor at the left arm. No sleep at night in
consequence of the violent itching. Swelling of the left eye. 80.
Frequent diarrhœa. He vomits up a cake as soon as he had eaten it.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

MENTAL AND MORAL: 1. Out of humor. Sad. Ennui when alone. Merry.

HEAD, &c.: 5. Hammering in the temple. Hammering in the head. Hot face.

EYES, EARS, NOSE: Swelling of the left eye. Swelling of the right eye.
10. Unable to look at an object steadily. Confused sight at candle-light.
Throbbing toothache. Bad smell in the mouth, after drinking water.
Violent heat in the tongue when taking his dinner.

GASTRIC: 15. Foul eructations. Colic, after taking a cold drink. Desire
to vomit. Nausea. Bitter eructations. 20. Loss of appetite. He throws
up cake immediately after eating it. Shootings in the throat when
swallowing. Bruising pain in abdomen.

STOOL: Black stool. 25. Frequent diarrhœa. White urine. Prickling in
larynx when drawing breath. Cough, with lancinations in the sides.
Lancinations in the right side of the chest, less during rest. 30.
Contusive pain at right side of chest. Embarrassed breathing. Pricking
pain in middle of chest. Constrictive pain around the neck. Throbbing
pain in nape of neck.

EXTREMITIES: 35. Swelling at the left arm. Beating at the left arm. The
hand gets burnt when holding it near the fire. Swelling of the right
leg. Throbbing pain in the calves. 40. Sharp sticking pain at lower part
of left leg. Swelling, roughness and itching of right leg. Pain at the
right leg as if stung. Bruising pain at the bend of the knee. Bruising
pain at the right knee. 45. Pain at the foot when walking or touching
the sole. Drowsy. Shuddering. Itching all over. The skin on each side of
the stomach appears thicker, with sticking pain in the last false ribs.
50. Itching every few minutes, especially at the legs. Vesicles here
and there, containing a fluid. Vesicles on the swollen leg, containing
a fluid. Hammering pain at the tibia, nape of the neck and foot.
Vacillating gait. Lancinations in various parts, especially when going
down-stairs.




MIMOSA HUMILIS. (WILD.)

MIM.

[Illustration]


This species which is one of the smallest of the genus Mimosa, is found
in the prairies around Rio-Janeiro. Its stem is feeble, rather woody,
ramose, pubescent above and covered with very sharp prickles. The leaves
are bipinnate, the pinnæ being three- or four-paired, with small,
linear folioles, which close at the least contact; there are from 6 to
12 on each side of the spike. The flowers are small, sessile, forming
pretty silky tufts of a violet color. The fruit is somewhat triangular,
flattened, covered with long and stiff hairs, and surrounded by a
persistent pericarp, divided in two capsules, each of which contains one
seed.

_First day._—1. Twitching of the arm, which extends even to the chest.
Smarting pain in the legs, with lameness of the knee. Headache, with
weakness of the stomach. Stomach-ache after breakfast. 5. Drowsiness.
Flatulence and rumbling in the bowels. Yawning. Ptyalism. Shuddering.
10. Trembling of the legs. Lancinations in the legs and hands. Sneezing.
Coryza and discharge from the nose. Inflamed eyes. 15. Papulæ on the
left leg. Constipation. Depression of spirits.

_Second day._—Frequent waking at night. Dry cough in the morning. 20.
Stomach-ache after breakfast. Vertigo. Halo around the candle-light.
Numbness of the hands. Stiffness of the bends of the knees. 25. Sense of
heat in the head. The head seems larger than usual. Yawning. Indolent
indifference. Flatulent colic in the evening. 30. Frequent stools, with
colic. Papulous excrescence of the size of an almond on the right leg,
painful and itching. The same swelling at the instep. Drowsy in the
evening. Difficult breathing.

_Third day._—35. Inflammatory swelling of the scrotum. Itching of the
eyes. Pressure at the nape of the neck and the right temple. Papulous
excrescence at the tendo-Achillis. Dimness of vision. 40. Pain in the
sides of the head. Diarrhœa.

_Fourth day._—Swelling of the left ankle, with redness, tension and
lancinations. The excrescences on the leg disappear; similar ones appear
on the left arm. Easy stool. 45. Numbness of the arm and right hand,
passing off when moving the parts. The left eye becomes inflamed. Want of
breath.

_Fifth day._—Bleeding of the gums. The papulæ disappear. 50. Acute
lancinations, now in the legs, then in the arms. Violent lancinations in
the back as from a penknife. Drowsy in the evening, with frequent waking
at night.

_Sixth day._—Inflammatory swelling of the left hand. Shuddering.

_Eighth day._—55. Flatulence. Diarrhœa.

_Tenth day._—Diarrhœa. Whizzing in the ears.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

HEAD, &c.: 1. Vertigo. Indifference. Depression of spirits. Pain in the
sides of the head. 5. Headache, with weak stomach. Heat in the head.
The head feels as if swollen. Coryza, fluent. Itching of the eyes. 10.
Dimness of sight. The left eye is inflamed. Inflamed eyes. Whizzing in
the ears. Bleeding of the gums.

GASTRIC SYMPTOMS, &c.: 15. Ptyalism. Stomach-ache after breakfast.
Flatulent colic. Diarrhœa. Easy stool. 20. Frequent stools with colic.
Rumbling. Dry cough. Oppressed breathing.

EXTREMITIES: Pressure at nape of neck. 25. Lancinations in the back.
Twitching of the arm. Smarting in the legs, with lame knee. Trembling of
the legs. Lancinations in the legs and hand. 30. Stiffness of the bends
of the knees. Numbness of the arm and right hand. Lancinations in the
legs and arms. Inflammatory swelling of the left hand. Swelling of left
ankle, with redness. 35. Yawning. Drowsy. Shuddering. Papulæ on left leg
and arm. Papulous excrescence on the right leg and instep.




CERVUS BRAZILICUS (NOBIS).

CERV.—BRAZILIAN STAG; GUAZOUTI. PORTUG: GOUAZOUPITA.

[Illustration]


This stag whose forms are extremely fine and graceful, inhabits the
forests of Brazil. Its size is about the same as that of our stag.
Its skin the color of which never changes, is of a brownish fallow,
being rather lighter towards the abdomen, the posterior part of the
thighs and the tail. The inferior surface of the lower jaw, the part
above and below the eyes, the interior of the ears and the abdomen are
white; a black line encircles the jaws and gradually disappears under
the lower one. The eyes of the guazouti are black, it has no canine
teeth; its mouth, which is very slender, tapers to a muzzle. The horns
which, in every case, are not very high and extremely regular, are at
first straight; they curve forward in the second year, send forth three
antlers, the anterior being placed about two inches above the burr,
which is turned a little inward, and the other two at the superior and
posterior part of the staff. The horns become bigger as they grow older,
but the number of antlers remains the same. We triturate the skin, which
should be used fresh and covered with the hair.

_First day._—1. Copper taste in the mouth, and a sensation of heat in
the throat when taking the drug. Light or comatose sleep, with dreams
about men who are dressed in black, about pistol-shots, imprisonment.
Uneasiness. At five o’clock in the morning, the head feels heavy and
dull, especially the front part. 5. Constant heat in head. At half past
nine the left side of the tongue feels hurt. Languid feeling, he wants to
lie down. Unable to work. Sensation of goose-flesh as if some one were
cutting cork close to him. 10. Repeated yawning. He feels cold though he
is wrapt up well. Slumbers from half past two to three o’clock. Slight
diarrhœa. 15. The heat in the face increases (at four o’clock). Dark-red
spots, with inflammation of the right side of the face. Head dull and
heavy. Heat about the legs. At six o’clock, slight pain around the navel,
which, however, does not last long. 20. Pricking at the right nasal wing.
At noon, the head feels compressed as by a band tied together at the
nape of the neck. Bruising sensation in the left toes. Frequent pain,
now in the left buttock, and then in the thigh. The left leg feels weak.
25. Small callosity above the internal ankle of the left foot. General
feeling of weariness and of being bruised.

_Second day._—Restless sleep as the first night. Wakes several times at
night, always preoccupied with the idea of quarrelling with somebody
who frightened him. The dulness continues. 30. Weight at the forehead.
Tight feeling at the inner side of the right leg, with red spots.
Appearance like incipient erysipelas. Shuddering with twitching. Yawning.
35. Intermitting pain in the right groin after walking. Taste of doughy
bread in the mouth. The sight is very sensitive to light, he cannot open
his eyes in a spot which is illumined by the sun. At eight o’clock in
the evening, pain in the right groin as if pricked with a pin, in the
direction of the joint, for a quarter of an hour. The same pain is felt
in the navel in a recumbent posture.

_Third day._—40. Numbness of the arm on which he had been lying at night.
Hardness of the left leg, with lancinations. Mottled appearance of the
face. Red and humid spots on the left leg. Quiet and short sleep, he
wakes four times at night. 45. Dulness of the head; same weight at the
forehead. Heat in the right leg, where the red spot is; this is sensitive
to contact. Taste as of doughy bread in the mouth. Depression of spirits
in the day-time. Erection in the evening, with desire to lie down.

_Fourth day._—50. Numbness of the hands and legs. Uneasiness in the left
leg.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

HEAD, &c.: 1. Depression of spirits. Weight at forehead. The head feels
heavy and dull. Heat in the head. 5. The head feels compressed as by a
band tied behind. Sensitiveness to light. Left side of the tongue feels
sore. Taste of doughy bread. Copper taste in mouth, with heat in throat.
10. Mottled appearance of the face. Hot face. Pricking at right nasal
wing. Pain in right groin after walking. Pricking pain in the right groin
and navel. 15. Slight pain around the navel. Diarrhœa. Erection.

EXTREMITIES, &c.: Numbness of the arm on which he had been lying. The
left leg feels weak. 20. Tight feeling at inside of right leg, with red
spots. Hardness of the left leg, with lancinations. Heat at the legs.
Heat in the right leg, where the red spot is. Bruising sensation in
left toes. 25. Uneasiness in left leg. Restless sleep. Yawning. Quiet
sleep, with frequent waking. Dreams about men dressed in black, about
imprisonment, &c. 30. Yawning. Shuddering with twitching. Sensation of
goose-flesh. Cold feeling. He feels weary and sore. 35. Languor. Numbness
of the hands and legs. Incipient erysipelas. Callosity above the left
inner ankle. Red and humid spots on left leg. 40. Dark-red inflamed spots
in face, right side.




GUANO AUSTRALIS.


This substance, which has been used for some years past as manure, is
found on the coasts of Patagonia—and principally on the Lobos Island
near the coast of Peru. We have proved the different varieties of guano,
and likewise the crystalline particles formed by the condensation of
ammonical vapors which rise from the guano in abundance. Our hope to
discover in these crystals a more active normal agent, has not been
realized, so that, in the end, we have found the freshest possible guano
preferable for medicinal purposes. It is triturated in the same way as
all other substances.

_First day._—1. Internal shuddering for three minutes in the morning.
Violent headache. Pain in the forehead when inclining the head forward,
at 6 o’clock in the morning. Violent itching at the back, and painful
smarting after scratching, at 7 o’clock in the morning. 5. Formication in
the right nasal fossa, at 7 and a half o’clock. Pain with pinching behind
the ears, at 8 o’clock in the morning. Dizziness, objects turn from below
upward, at 9 o’clock in the morning. Nausea with profuse flow of saliva.
Pale face with faint feeling, at noon. 10. Lassitude, at half past two in
the afternoon. Desire to vomit, at half past two in the afternoon. While
eating, pain at the pit of the stomach and desire to vomit. Profuse sweat
all over, after eating. Aching in the forehead and temples, worse when
stooping, at half past three. 15. Pain at the styloid process of the left
wrist. Pain in the lungs which stops the breathing, for three minutes.
Swelling of the right index-finger. Itching of the genital organs. Water
feels extremely cold to the hands, they feel like ice when keeping them
in the water a little longer. 20. Pain at the feet which prevents one
from pressing them to the ground, at 5 o’clock in the evening. Red spot,
with itching at the back, and smarting pain after scratching. Violent
headache as if the head were incased in iron.

_Second day._—Beating at the left commissure of the lips, at 6 o’clock in
the morning. Itching in the right nostril and frequent sneezing, for one
hour, at half past 6 o’clock. 25. Great weakness. She remains at the spot
where she happened to have located herself.

_Third day._—Painful ganglion on the left arm, with redness and itching;
when scratching the arm, it remains insensible until the skin was off;
lasts for half an hour, at 6 o’clock in the morning. Headache: he feels
as if the head were opened, at 8 o’clock in the morning. Smarting
ganglion below the right calf, hindering walking, and lasting until night.

_Fourth day._—30. Nausea, one cannot bear seeing persons eat, at 7
o’clock in the morning. Painful ganglion at the left elbow. Small itching
pimples. Violent beating of the heart; feeble breathing, for five
minutes. Large hard and red place on the back, with pricklings as from a
thousand pins. This sensation commences at 9 o’clock and lasts all night.

_Fifth day._—35. Profuse sweat on the arms and hands; the skin on the
thighs is insensible; a prick is not felt; for two days they are covered
with little pimples. Cramp at the pit of the stomach before eating.

_Sixth day._—Violent pain at the right knee, as though pieces of flesh
would be torn from him, at 7 o’clock in the morning. Burning under the
soles of the feet, she cannot keep her shoes on. Cramp at the left thumb,
for an instant.

_Seventh day._—40. Sensation as if the gums were cut with penknives,
after which they bleed for half on hour, at 6 o’clock in the morning.
Formication in the right nostril, for five minutes, at 10 o’clock.
Sensation of hammering in the nape of the neck, at 3 o’clock in the
afternoon. Pain in the abdomen as if pierced by sharp points, at 9
o’clock in the evening.

_Eighth day._—Tongue white and thickly coated. 45. Bitter bilious taste
in the mouth, at 6 o’clock in the morning. Deep sleep. She dreams that
she is playing with wild beasts.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

HEAD, &c.: 1. Dizziness, objects turn from below upward. Headache.
Headache as if the head were encased in iron. Headache as if the head
would split. 5. Aching pain in forehead and temples. Pain in forehead
when inclining the head forward. Pale face, with faint feeling. Pinching
pain behind the ears. Cutting in the gums, followed by bleeding. 10.
Tongue coated white. Beating at the left commissure of the lips.
Formication in right nasal fossa. Itching in right nostril, with sneezing.

GASTRIC, &c.: Bilious taste in mouth. 15. Cramp at pit of stomach before
eating. Nausea, cannot bear seeing people eat. Pain at pit of stomach,
with desire to vomit, while eating. Sweat all over, after eating. Nausea,
with flow of saliva. 20. Desire to vomit. Sharp piercing-sticking pain in
abdomen. Itching of the genital organs. Palpitation of the heart. Pain in
the lungs, arresting the breathing.

EXTREMITIES, &c.: 25. Hammering sensation in nape of neck. Itching of
the back, with smarting after scratching. The hands feel like ice in
cold water. Pain at the left wrist. Swelling of the right index-finger.
30. Cramp at the left thumb. Burning at the soles. Pain at the feet when
pressing them to the ground. Pain at right knee, as if the flesh would be
torn off. Internal shuddering, in the morning. 35. She dreams that she
is playing wild beasts. Itching, red spot on the back. Hard and red spot
on the back, with pricklings. Smarting ganglion below the right calf.
Painful ganglion on left arm, with redness. 40. Weakness, no desire to
stir. Lassitude. Profuse sweat on the arms and hands, with insensibility
of the skin and little pimples.




HIPPOMANE MANCINELLA. (L.)

HIPP. MANCINELLA VENENATA, TUSS.

[Illustration]


Although the poisonous properties of the mancinella have been very much
exaggerated, it is nevertheless a very poisonous tree, which, happily,
becomes more and more rare, owing to its being rooted up with great care
wherever it shows itself. It is a tree from 12 to 15 feet high, with
a trunk having a white and soft wood and covered with a greyish bark.
Its branchy top gives it the appearance of a European fruit-tree. Its
leaves are alternate, oval-acute, somewhat cordate at their base, with
fine indentations, and a red gland at their apex. They are attached
to long petioles; stipulate while young. Flowers monoïchous, forming
long terminal spikes, the male flowers being above, the female below
or at the axilla of the leaves. The male flowers have a bifid perianth
whence emanate the stamens, the united filaments of which form a column
that supports the anthers. The female flowers have a perianth with two
or three divisions and a rudimentary foliole; the ovary is round and
superior; style straight, terminating in 6 or 7 red, radiating, reflexed
stigmata. The fruit is round, pulpy, from 5 to 6 inches in diameter,
umbilicate at the top, and inclosing a wooden kernel with seven monosperm
compartments.

The fresh leaves are triturated. When we were informed that a mancinella
had been discovered near Rio, we requested Mr. Ackermann, a pupil of
the institute, to repair to the spot for the purpose of verifying the
identity of the plant, and collecting its juice. Having accomplished his
mission, he drunk a portion of the liquid, on the 10th of January, 1847,
in a public sitting of the institute. He was joined in the proving by
several of our pupils. Some of the following symptoms were so violent,
that they had to be counteracted by antidotes. The pathogenesis of the
mancinella is one of the most precious additions which our Brazilian
provers have furnished to our Materia Medica.

Prover: M. E. T. Ackermann.


FIRST PROVING.

_First day._—1. Merry mood, desire to sing. Is disposed to take every
thing in good part. Buzzing in the ears and whizzing like the wind, when
walking. Urine scanty and whitish. 5. Sensation of heat and trembling in
the chest. Constant eructations like volumes of air. Watery vomiting.
Violent pain in the abdomen, as if he had been struck by the point of a
stick.

_Second day._—10. Heavy sleep, and late waking. Evanescent ideas.
Sensation of paralysis immediately after rising, his hand trembles a good
deal; he is unable to open the door of his room. Absence of thought.
Disposed to be silent. Deep tranquillity of mind, in the morning. 15.
Sadness. Drowsy after breakfast. Embarrassed breathing when falling
asleep again. Redness of the skin. Sweat in the palm of the hands whereas
the rest of the body is perfectly dry. 20. Pain at the lower part of
the head, and weight as if he had knocked it against any thing. Small
pimples. Beating pain at the left side of the neck. Pain all around the
neck like beats with a hammer. Pain at the right side of the head while
hearing the strokes on an anvil, he felt as though he were struck with a
hammer. 25. Pain at the nape of the neck and forehead when stooping; it
is a dull, confused pain which he cannot describe. In the day-time the
hands become red. Sense of weight over the eyes. His nose is looser than
usual. Pain all round the head as from a blow after having remained in
the sun for a time. 30. Redness and heat of the ears. Alternate hunger
and loss of appetite. Weak stomach. Loathing. Profuse urine, but always a
little white. 35. Acute pain with weight in the pit of the stomach, for a
minute. Eructation during an expiration, like a volume of hot air, which
ascends to the mouth with a feeling of oppression. Metallic taste in the
mouth. White expectoration. Beating pain in the abdomen after breakfast.
40. Disagreeable sensation while hearing the noise of a saw. When hearing
blows with a hammer the counter-shock is felt in the whole body. He
alternately lays himself down and raises himself again. Swelling of the
veins of the hands. Constant pain all day, in the wrist and metacarpus,
as if strings were tied round very tightly. 45. Three slight beats on the
arm, as if touched with the finger. Easy stool. The face is yellow and
the body red. Copious emission of wind. Weak all over in the day-time.
50. Two attacks of colic and diarrhœa, with pulling and pinching in the
bowels, at midnight.

_Third day._—Sad, then merry dreams. Every thing is unpleasant to him.
The headache continues and renders him impatient. Feeling of tenderness
and deep pity. 55. Profuse and whitish urine. The chest dilates a good
deal, when drawing breath, even with the mouth closed. The chest feels
bruised, with embarrassed respiration. The constrictive pain at the wrist
shifts to the middle of the arm for an hour, after which it returns again
to the wrist.

_Fourth day._—Lancinating pain in the left temple. 60. Buzzing in the
ears, and drumming noise when walking against the wind. Lancinating
pain in the chest. Prickings through the heart. The moral emotions are
accompanied by an indescribable malaise, beating pain in the chest and
loss of speech. When making the least exertion, he is attacked with
violent cough and painful prickings in the throat. 65. When commencing
to talk, a sudden suffocation and violent beatings in the chest.
Suffocation and beatings in the chest when attempting to cough. Beating
pain in the head and nape of the neck, with inability to bend the head
forwards for the purpose of writing. Weak chest. Thirst every hour in
the day-time; desire for water, with aversion to wine or any other
liquor. 70. The weakness increases. Sadness. Colic and diarrhœa. Full
and frequent inspirations. Urine clear and abundant, but whitish. 75.
Lancinations in the bladder when commencing to urinate, he feels relieved
after urinating. Pulling and dragging pain in the bowels.

_Fifth day._—Headache. Pain in the chest when making the least motion.
The breathing is no longer embarrassed. 80. Extraordinary desire to
smoke. Pricking in the feet when sitting. Weakness all over. Pain in
the bends of the knees as if bruised. 85. Constriction round the thighs
and legs as if a thread had been tied around. Lancinations in the
groins. Sexual desire. Continual thirst in the day-time. Dry mouth. 90.
Depression of spirits. Sadness. Cold extremities. Profuse and clear
urine. Deep sleep in the day-time. 95. Aversion to work.

_Sixth day._—Dream about ghosts and phantoms. Headache. Sad in the
morning. Increasing thirst in the day-time, until evening. 100. Heaviness
all over. Profuse and clear urine. Loathing of every thing. Aversion to
work. Desire to lie down.

_Seventh day._—105. Headache with vertigo, especially in the morning,
after eating a piece of bread. Sensation as of a blow in the abdomen,
followed by stool. Formication in the right hip, and lancinations when
walking. Continual thirst. Sadness. 110. Clear and profuse urine.

_Eighth day._—The urine becomes natural again.

_Ninth day._—The previous symptoms disappear. Active mind, disposed to
work. Good appetite.

_Eleventh day._—115. Tetter of an inch in diameter on the left arm; it
disappears on the following day. Beating pain in the neck, abating for
a few moments by reclining the head. Pricking in the mouth when eating
bread. Desire to remain lying. Frequent stool. 120. Swelling of the left
ankle. Pricking for two hours at the left knee-joint.

_Twelfth day._—Lancinating pain in the head. Heaviness at the head. Pain
at the head after thinking, as from bandaging the head from temple to
temple with the skin of a bladder. 125. Confused pain in the head when
writing. Lancinating pain in the head, as soon as one sets about eating.
Contusive pain at the clavicles, when turning the head right or left.


SECOND PROVING.

_First day._—(The drug was taken at half past seven in the evening.)

One hour after, violent headache, with painful lancinations. The pains
continued all night, with sleeplessness.

_Second day._—130. The headache continues, especially at the temples
and above the eyes. Acute pain at the elbow-joints. Taste of blood in
the mouth. Rheumatic pain at the shoulder-blade. Repeated, violent
lancinations in the right side of the abdomen. 135. Lancinations at
irregular intervals, in the left shoulder-blade and muscles, from the
left side of the chest. Headache all day. Constant dryness in the throat.
Taste of blood in the mouth all day.

_Third day._—Painful lancinations in the head, temples, and over the
eyes. 140. Intense lancinating pains in the left side. Lancinations
in the hypochondria and shoulder-blades. The pain at the elbow-joint
continues. Lancination in the right knee-joint. Excessive heaviness
and dulness of the head. 145. Constant drowsiness. Incessant headache.
Intense, lancinating and constrictive pain in the muscles of the upper
part of the right arm, for more than an hour. Continued formication in
both feet, especially the left. Taste of blood in the mouth, as if blood
had ascended in the throat, and had left the taste of it in the mouth.
150. Frequent and violent lancinations in the abdomen and bowels. Almost
complete loss of appetite. Comatose, constantly drowsy. The head feels
very heavy, with constant pain in it.

_Fourth day._—No sleep at night. 155. The headache becomes intolerable.
Taste of blood in the mouth. Attack of diarrhœa, with pain and tenesmus.
First a natural stool, followed by frequent, painful discharges, first
of black, fetid substances, then of a watery liquid; the attack lasts
upwards of two hours. Lancination in the muscles of the right knee, also
in the ribs and right side. 160. Pains in the hypochondria. Lancinating
pain in the bowels. Lancinating pain in the left shoulder. The headache
continues. Complete loss of appetite. 165. No sleep.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

1. MENTAL AND MORAL: Taciturn. Deep repose of mind. Evanescent ideas.
Merry. 5. Sadness. Feeling of tenderness. Sad, then merry dreams.

HEAD: Heaviness and dulness of the head. Lancinating pain in the head.
10. Pain at the head, as if bandaged all round, after thinking. Headache
with vertigo, after eating bread in the morning. Headache, especially
in the temples, and above the eyes. Violent headache with painful
lancinations. Pain as from a blow all round the head, when staying in the
sun. Weight above the eyes. 15. Pain at nape of neck and forehead, when
stooping. Pain and weight at lower part of the head. Lancinating pain in
left temple.

FACE, GASTRIC: Face yellow, and body red. 20. Buzzing in the ears.
Redness and heat of the ears. Buzzing and whizzing in the ears. Dry
mouth. Loathing. 25. Loathing of every kind of food. Loss of appetite.
Watery vomiting. Desire to smoke. Thirst every hour, with aversion to
wine or liquor. 30. Alternate hunger, and loss of appetite. Pricking in
the mouth when eating bread. Eructations, like volumes of air rising
upwards. Hot air rises during an expiration. Taste of blood in the mouth.
35. Metallic taste in mouth. Dryness of the throat.

STOMACH, BOWELS: Weak stomach. Acute pain and weight in pit of stomach.
Lancinations in the groins. 40. Pulling and dragging pain in the bowels.
Sensation as of a blow in the abdomen, followed by stool. Violent
lancinations in right side of abdomen. Pains in the hypochondria.
Lancinations in abdomen and bowels. 45. Sticking pain in abdomen. Beating
pain in abdomen, after breakfast. Flatulence.

STOOL, URINARY, GENITAL: Easy stool. Colic and diarrhœa, with pulling and
pinching in the bowels. 50. Diarrhœa, with pain and tenesmus. Natural
stool, followed by painful discharges, first of black and fetid, then of
watery, liquid substances. Frequent stool. Dartings in the bladder, when
commencing to urinate. Profuse urine, rather white. 55. Urine scanty and
whitish.

CHEST: Full and frequent inspirations. Weak chest. Contusive pain at
the clavicles when turning the head. Sense of heat and trembling in the
chest. 60. Suffocation and beating in the chest, when attempting to
talk or laugh. Violent cough and painful prickings in the throat, after
the least exertion. The chest feels bruised, with oppressed breathing.
Lancinating pain in the chest. Considerable dilatation of the chest, when
drawing breath. 65. Embarrassed breathing. Prickings through the heart.

BACK, EXTREMITIES: Beating pain at left side of neck, or all around it.
Pain at right side of neck as if struck with a hammer. Rheumatic pain at
the shoulder-blade. 70. Dartings in the left shoulder-blade and muscles,
from the left side of the chest. Beating pain in the neck, abating when
reclining the head. Lancinating pain in the left shoulder. Intense
darting and constrictive pain in the muscles of the upper part of the
right arm. Tetter on left arm. 75. Slight beats on the arms as with a
finger. Acute pain at the elbow-joints. Constrictive pain in wrist and
metacarpus, all day, shifting to the arm. His hand trembles after rising,
as if paralyzed. Sweat in the palm of the hand. 80. The veins of the hand
are swollen. Formication in the right hip, and lancinations when walking.
Constrictions around the thighs and legs. Bruising pain in the bends of
the knees. Pricking at left knee-joint. 85. Dartings in the right knee
joint. Swelling of the left ankle. Pricking in the feet when sitting.
Formication in the feet.

SLEEP, &c.: Heavy sleep. 90. No sleep at night. Dream about ghosts and
phantoms. Constant drowsiness. Deep sleep in the day-time. Red skin. 95.
Pimples. Desire to lie down. Aversion to work. Indescribable malaise,
with beating pain in the chest and loss of speech. Nervousness, the blows
of a hammer produce a counter-shock in the whole body. 100. Beating
pain in the head and nape of the neck, with inability to bend the head
forwards. Cold extremities. Heaviness all over. Painful dartings in the
head, temples, and above the eyes. Darting in the muscles of the right
knee, ribs and right side. 105. Weakness in the day-time.




HURA BRAZILIENSIS. (WILLD.)

HURA.—ASSACÙ.—OASSACÙ.

[Illustration]


This plant inhabits the equatorial regions of South-America, the
provinces of Para, Rio-Negro, and the neighborhood of the Amazon, where
it is very frequent. It resembles the hura crepitans; its leaves are
alternate, somewhat cordate, rounded, glabrous, serrate; rolled up and
stipulate while young. The petiole is provided at its top with two large
glands. Flowers monoïchous; the male flowers having a short, urceolate
perianth, and covered with a scaly bract; they form elongated, peduncled,
terminal husks. The female flowers, which are twice as long as those
of the hura crepitans, have their perianth resting against the ovary,
which is surmounted by a long and infundibiliform style, terminated by a
stellate stigma; they are solitary and placed near the male flowers. It
is from this tree that the Indians draw the milky juice called Assacù by
the Brazilians.

A man affected with lepra, and who had sought refuge in the solitary
regions of the Amazone, took, by the advice of an Indian whom he met
there, a considerable quantity of a juice known under the name of Assacù,
flowing from the trunk of a tree, which has been described by Willdenow,
under the name of hura braziliensis. He was cured; and the president of
the province of Para, informed the imperial government of it. Since then,
this juice has been very generally used by leprous patients without,
however, curing them.

The first and third provers of this drug, on a voyage to Brazil, in
1842, had both been attacked with the lepra. Under homœopathic treatment
they seemed both to have got well, though one might have inferred from
the gravity of their symptoms, that they had been palliated rather than
cured. The frightful symptoms of compression of the spinal marrow, which
supervened in the case of one of the provers, point to the Assacù as a
powerful remedy for various forms of myelitis. The symptoms of nervous
excitement, the twitching, the irritability of the temperament exhibited
by all the provers, favor the doctrine that the lepra is a particular
lesion of the nervous system. If the exanthems and the insensibility
of the skin characteristic of the lepra, have been less marked in our
provings, it is undoubtedly because these phenomena belong to some
chronic form which a continued use of the drug and a real poisoning are
alone capable of producing.

These four provings have been instituted with a single drop of the
fifth attenuation. It is our rule to avoid repeating the dose lest the
chronological succession of the symptoms which we regard as important,
should be disturbed. We do not believe that repeated doses can do much
good, and if a prover should not experience any effects from one dose, we
should prefer dropping this proving, and resort to some other drug, to
which his organism should be more sensible.

First prover: Aug. Joly, 29 years of age, bilious-nervous temperament,
healthy constitution.

_First day._—Took one drop of the 5th attenuation at ten o’clock at night.

1. One hour after, itching at the ribs and sternum, at the biceps and
the posterior parts of the right arm. Doughy mouth, in the morning, on
waking. Dreams about a ball, about houses in process of erection. In
the morning, itching at the arms, legs, outer parts of the tibia. 5. The
upper and lower eyelids are inflamed and blueish. Itching at the right
arm, at the lower and inner portion of the humerus, owing to a little
pimple which is forming. Taste of blood in the mouth. Whizzing in the
ears, especially the right. Clusters of miliary pimples on the back,
arms, legs and chest. 10. Irritated by the least contrariety. Desire
to vomit, sick stomach. Rheumatic pain at the left arm. He looks weary
as if he had been carousing all night, though he slept well all night.
Pinching at the right side of the tongue. 15. Lancination in the canal of
the urethra. Prickling around the eyes, and especially around the right
one. Sensation as if small pimples would break out on the inside of the
eyelids. Nervous beating in the eyelids. Rheumatic pain at the sacrum,
especially when stooping. 20. Contusive pain at the lumbar region.
Miliary eruption in the joints.

_Second day._—Dry mouth in the morning. Acute pain in the lumbar region
and at the sacrum, as from a fall. Smoky taste of the water which is
drank at breakfast. 25. Pain in the ileo-femoral articulation. Pain all
along the left thigh. Sneezing, and frequent blowing, as when a catarrh
is about setting in, followed by involuntary discharge from the nose of
a lemon-colored mucus, with tickling. Constant pain in the lower part
of the lumbar regions, worse when stooping or sitting down. Lancinating
pain at the top of the head. 30. Slight desire to vomit at eleven o’clock
in the morning. Dizziness. He dreams that he was swimming in a river
with warm and dark-green water; afterwards that he was on a plantation
in Brazil, where men drew water from a yellow pond. Moist, intermittent
heat, mounting every fifteen minutes from the feet to the face. Prickling
at the right eye. 35. Sense of heat mounting to the clavicles. (At a
quarter of ten o’clock:) Dry nose, he cannot blow it; with itching at the
interior of the nose.

_Third day._—In the morning, the pain at the sacrum had disappeared. (At
ten o’clock and a half:) The pain at the sacrum returns worse, after
moving a box. Burning at the right index-finger, a red spot extending
from the nail to the second phalanx. Numbness; almost amounting to
insensibility. 40. (At half past twelve:) Pain as from a splinter under
the thumb-nail. In the evening, tickling under the arms and along the
dorsal spine. No sleep at night, frequent waking, feverish agitation.

_Fourth day._—Heat in the hands, in the morning. At two o’clock, a small
vesicular pimple on the back of the left hand; for four hours. 45.
Stiffness in the trapezoid muscle, near its attachment at the occiput.
Pain at the left forearm as from a blow. Small vesicular pimples, and
itching at the ribs, arms, and at every prominent process of the bones.

_Fifth day._—In the morning, the pimples on the arms have almost
disappeared; there remains only a little itching at the sternum. Heat at
the tips of the right fingers. 50. Sensation as if a small portion of the
nail of the right index-finger had become detached. At half past six in
the evening, heat and passing sweat. At half past seven in the evening,
sensation of burning, smarting on the left side of the chin, in the
beard, as from an incipient tetter. Sensation under the masseter muscle,
as from a recent blow on the parotid. At eight o’clock in the evening,
the spot becomes sensible to contact; a small swelling is observed
extending below the zygomatic arch. 55. Sensation at the supinator muscle
of the forearm, as from an incipient tetter. Small pimples on the inner
surface of the lower lip. Stiffness of the trapezoid muscle and the neck.
Prickling as from dust, at the border of the lower lid of the right eye.
60. Itching at the back, legs, arms, at the same time.

_Sixth day._—Fleshy excrescenses on the inner surface of the lips. At
four o’clock, weariness in the legs, in going up-stairs. At eight o’clock
in the evening, painful stiffness of the neck. The pain in the masseter
muscle, which had already decreased in the morning, disappeared entirely
in the evening. Weight in the testicles in walking, at five o’clock in
the evening. 65. Taste of blood in the throat before breakfast.

_Seventh day._—Itching at the right lower eyelid, as if a pimple would
appear. At three o’clock, sensation as of dust in the left eye. Sense of
weight at the eyes, as if they had been strained.

_Eighth day._—No sleep all night. 70. Pressive pain at the cranium. Heat
in the nails of the left hand.

_Ninth day._—Straining sensation in the upper part of the sacrum,
preventing him from standing erect, at noon. Taste of blood in the throat
before breakfast. Sputa mixed with blood. 75. Sense of giving way in
the knee-joint, in going down-stairs, at two o’clock. At four o’clock,
pain in the renal region, which keeps increasing; it decreases at five
o’clock. Prickling in the left eye, and intolerable itching, with nervous
irritation which spreads to the heart, but passes off soon.

_Tenth day._—Prickling in the left eye as from dust. Smarting sensation
in the beard as from a pimple at each hair, at nine o’clock. 80. Burning
sensation at the inner canthus of the right eye, at half past nine in the
evening. The carunculæ lachrymales look inflamed.

_Eleventh day._—Itching at the anterior surface of the tibia, at
night, and smarting sensation as from a tetter. Appearance of a small
red circle, with a small dark-red pimple in the middle; followed by
peeling off. Itching at the hairy scalp, especially behind and in the
mastoid process, as from a tetter. 85. Sensation as if he had torn off a
hang-nail, or as from a splinter in the ring-finger of the left hand. At
ten o’clock, smarting at the bend of the right elbow, on the outside.

_Twelfth day._—Tickling at the left arm, with small vesicular pimples.
Itching in the beard, with small pimples which form a crust under
the chin. Itching and small crusty pimples on the hairy scalp. 90.
Constrictive sensation at the anus; at half past five o’clock.

_Thirteenth day._—Painful sensation at the upper and lateral portions
of the sacrum, as if strained or bruised. Clusters of small miliary
pimples at the bend of the elbow, with redness around the pimples after
scratching them. The pimples cease to be vesicular; other pimples appear
on the insteps. Prickling sensation in the eyes all day, with redness
and smarting at the border of the lids. 95. Sensation as if there were
dust or foreign bodies in the eyes. The right eye is more sensible than
the left. Weariness in the legs, after noon. Pain in the left knee as
from a sprain, with lancinations below the pain.

_Fourteenth day._—Contractive sensation below, and at the right side
of the coccyx. 100. Rheumatic pain at the left side of the neck, the
splenius, complexus and trapezoides muscles.

_Fifteenth day._—Rheumatic pain at the neck, with difficulty of turning
the head to the left side, in the morning. Pain in the head like a
weight on the skull, extending to the mastoid processes. Sense of
loathing with nausea. Oppression at the stomach when standing erect.
105. Pale face, with rings around the eyes and redness at the margin of
the eyelids. Pains in the head like a beating in the sides and at the
vertex, reverberating in the mastoid processes, and extending to the
sterno-mastoid muscles. Sense of constriction in the upper part of the
throat. Yellowish, heavy and frothy expectoration, ever since he took
his drug. The affective sphere is very active. 110. Painful stiffness
of the neck, which prevents one from turning the head to the left side.
Sensation, in closing the eyes, as though the eyelids were cold. Pain
from the occiput to the vertex, with beating, and acute pains.

_Sixteenth day._—Horrid pain in the sacro-lumbar region, at the
articulation of the last lumbar vertebra and sacrum, when attempting
to raise a weight. Pain as when straining a ligament; numb pain in the
left thigh, along the course of the sciatic nerve. 115. Inability to
stoop without experiencing acute pains in the sacro-lumbar region; he
is obliged to lie down. Fainting when trying to sit down, caused by the
violence of the pain at the sacrum; sense of tearing. Nervous spasms,
convulsions, cramps in the calves and toes during the fainting spell.
Sense of shuddering at the rectum. Tickling like worms creeping along
in the rectum. 120. In spite of the pains, he slept pretty well in the
night, from the fifteenth to the sixteenth. Desire to urinate, every
half hour. He urinates a long time. Watery urine, with a greenish tint.
Cramp in the right middle, and ring-finger. 125. Pulse interrupted
for two minutes, ringing in the ears, roaring in the head, beating in
the temples. During and after the fainting-spell disposition to love
everybody, especially those around you. He often thinks of death, but
he is not afraid of dying; he even feels as though he would die without
regret. He reproaches himself with everything bad he has done, even the
least trifles, and considers himself very guilty for having done them.
During the nervous attacks, he thinks of his salvation. The sense of
smell is very acute, he even smells persons at a distance.

_Seventeenth day._—130. The pain at the sacrum seems to decrease, but he
is not yet able to rise from bed, nor stir about in it, he has to remain
lying on the back. He has an appetite, but eats little. A sort of painful
glandular swelling behind the masseter muscle, below the right ear.
Dulness of the head, in front. Sense of oppression at the forehead.

_Eighteenth day._—135. Frequent waking at night. He wakes earlier than
usual. Doughy mouth, in the morning. Foul, bloody sputa, of the color of
chocolate with milk. The pain at the sacrum is feebler, it seems to have
spread over a larger space, rises a little towards the dorsal and lumbar
muscles, and to the dorsal vertebræ. 140. The head, above the eyebrows,
is still somewhat dull. Weakness in the finger-joints and wrists. The
gland at the neck continues painful, with lancinations. Taste of blood in
the throat. Flushes of heat. 145. The breathing is painful, as if there
were a sore in the lumbar region.

_Nineteenth day._—Deep and long sleep. Nosebleed, in the morning. Pimple
at the forehead. Weight above the eyes, he is unable to read long. 150.
Sense of weariness in the arms, though lying down. The pain at the sacrum
decreases; sometimes, however, it rises again to the cervical vertebræ.
Prickling in the eyes. A cluster of pimples breaks out at the wrist, on
the external and inferior surface of the radius; they are vesicular,
(like those which he had after his return from Brazil.) Bloating
sensation in the eyes. 155. Throbbing at the sacrum, without pain. Pale
face, eyes sunken, with redness around the eyelids.

_Twentieth day._—No stool from the sixteenth to the twentieth day. Hard
and difficult stool. The pain at the sacrum is much less, though he
still feels a violent throbbing in this region, but painless. 160. Rose
at eight o’clock, his legs were weak and his head felt heavy; he laid
down again an hour after, with very cold feet. He feels a pain at the
iliac bones, though not all the time. There are fever pimples on the arm,
and the remaining pimples contain a little water which spirts out when
pressed. Sensation in the glutei muscles as if bruised. Full and slow
painless beatings in the sacro-lumbar region.

_Twenty-first day._—165. Restless night, dreams about crime, dead bodies,
children with their heads half cut off, and of others whose heads were
being cut. Pain in the glutei muscles as if bruised, now on the right,
then on the left side. Pain as if bruised at the sacrum, with heat
mounting to the face, at nine o’clock in the morning, shortly after
rising. Cramp in the toes. Beatings in the left temple. 170. Painful
stitch and beating sensation between the shoulder-blades.

_Twenty-second day._—Lascivious dream with emission. Heat mounting to the
face, with oppression of the chest. Acute pain in one of the right toes.
Weight at the sacrum, but less bruising in the glutei muscles; weakness
in the knee joints, with cracking, either in going up or down-stairs,
175. Sensation as if a warm liquid were flowing from a sore in the lumbar
region. Heat mounting to the face, at seven o’clock in the evening.
Weakness of the legs in going up or down-stairs.

_Twenty-third day._—Restless night, heat and sweat all night. Dream about
work, vast business. 180. Dizziness at two o’clock, waves before the
eyes; the sight becomes dim when writing. Sparks and zig-zag movements
before the eyes, when walking or sitting. Weak legs. Weight in the upper
lids. Frontal headache. 185. Pressure at the forehead, with damp coldness
at the feet and hands. The headache extends to eyebrows and eyes.
Short-lasting oppression at the throat, in the region of the tonsils. The
eyes are red, with blue dark margins; face pale, yellow, dull. Less pain
in the renal region; but he is unable to stand any length of time without
experiencing an uneasiness in the stomach which extends to the chest with
oppression. 190. Sclerotica red, inflamed, and the capillaries injected.
Beating pressure at the sclerotica. Weakness of the knee-joint, when
walking or going up and down-stairs. Hiccough four hours after eating.

_Twenty-fourth day._—Restless sleep. 195. Slight prickling pain at the
sacro-lumbar articulation, in going up-stairs. Sense of oppression at the
chest.

_Twenty-fifth day._—Pressure at the forehead. Heat in the sacro-lumbar
region; sense of oppression at the chest, and rush of blood to the
larynx, with suffocative oppression; taste of blood and tearing in the
chest.

_Twenty-sixth day._—Restless sleep. 200. Throbbing and weakness in the
sacro-lumbar region. Nausea while riding in a carriage, before breakfast.
Sense of heat in the renal region, after a long ride in a carriage.
Slight aching pain at the forehead and vertex.

_Twenty-seventh day._—Restless sleep. 205. Beatings in the lumbar region,
with slight pullings or shudderings. Weakness in the lumbar region.
Weakness in the knee-joint; sense as if sprained, after a walk.

_Twenty-eighth day._—Restless sleep, with dreams about work, wild beast
devouring meat in a public slaughter-house. Sense of heat with throbbing
and fatigue in the lumbar region and above the iliac bones. 210.
Paleness, cold hands and feet, with weakness all over while the pains
last.

_Twenty-ninth day._—Dream about revolution, gun-shots, demolition of
some public edifice; he walked among the ruins. Sense of well-being, in
the morning on rising. Doughy mouth every morning, with sputa that has
the color of chocolate with cream, and fœtid smell. Spits blood in the
morning that seems to come deep out of the throat. 215. Swelling of the
left lower gums, over the molar teeth, outside, with toothache in this
region. Small pimples on the right knee, with smarting as from a tetter
and painful itching when touching them; they emit a fluid when pressed
upon; itching at the tibiæ.

_Thirtieth day._—The swelling of the gums continues, but the toothache
is less. The cheek threatens to swell. Taste of blood in the mouth and
throat, very marked, with scratching or tearing sensation when drawing
breath. 220. Headache at two o’clock, as from a nail in the vertex, with
violent toothache, swelling of the gums, after a walk. Beatings in the
left side of the face, extending up to the eye. The feet, and mostly the
whole body are constantly damp and cold, with weakness. Uneasiness at the
stomach. His breakfast does not seem to sit well on his stomach; he eats
with a good appetite, however (from the twenty-fourth day).

_Thirty-first day._—Restless night. Intolerable erections, sexual dreams,
with emissions. 225. Large pimples on the legs, around the root of each
hair. In the evening, large pimples, swollen, like mosquito-bites, with
violent itching, and raw feeling when touched.

_Thirty-second day._—Weakness, with painful stitch in the lumbar region.
Uneasiness in the stomach, every day after the noon-meal. Violent
headache on the left side.

_Thirty-third day._—230. Sense of tearing and spraining in back when
sitting (for one minute). Spitting of blood, with sense of rawness in the
throat and the respiratory passages, after talking. Contractive sensation
on the skin of the forehead. Pimples all over the body, similar to those
above described; suffocative sensation rising to the larynx.

_Thirty-fourth day._—Taste of blood in the mouth during an embrace. 235.
General emaciation. Inability to incline forward; he can only walk by
reclining the trunk backwards; when inclining forward ever so little, he
feels a pulling in the lumbar region and is obliged to straighten himself.

_Thirty-fifth day._—Uneasiness at the stomach from the noon-meal until
four in the afternoon. Irritable mood.

_Thirty-eighth day._—Frequent desire to urinate. 240. Clear urine, after
a return of the pain in the sacro-lumbar region. Tearing sensation in the
renal region; acute pain, with faint feeling and pale face.

_Forty-sixth day._—Cold sweat at night.

_Fifty-fifth day._—Pale, sickly face; rings around the eyes. Red lips.
245. Emaciation. Weakness in the sacro-lumbar region. Dimness of sight,
and prickling in the eyelids. (From this period, he gradually gets
better.)

Second prover: Chr. Dieudonné Joly, twenty-four years old,
sanguine-nervous temperament, robust constitution.

At eight o’clock in the evening, took one dose of assacù of the fifth
attenuation.

_First day._—Contraction of the papillæ on the tongue, immediately. 250.
Heaviness of the head. Acute pain in the right kidney while walking, with
urging to urinate, at nine o’clock in the evening; for two minutes.

_Second day._—In the morning, while walking, pain as if sprained in the
left coxo-femoral articulation, for some moments. Prickling at the margin
of the eyelids, in the day-time. Face looks weary, with rings around the
eyes. 255. Lancinations in the left index and thumb. Dull lancinations in
the right hand. Itching at the left side and calf. Stitch in the right
index-finger at eight o’clock in the evening. Feeling as of sand in the
left eye, at ten o’clock.

_Third day._—260. Nocturnal emission. Sneezing at noon, as when a
catarrh is about setting in. At two o’clock, dark redness and almost
complete insensibility of the sides of the neck in the region of the
sterno-cleido-mastoideus-muscles; he pricks the parts and does not feel
any pain until one hour after.

_Fourth day._—No sleep at night, and drowsy in the day-time. Livid
complexion at noon. 265. At nine o’clock in the evening, itching at the
left eyelids.

_Fifth day._—Violent nosebleed, at seven o’clock in the morning. Stinging
in the ball of the right thumb. Slight pain in the medius of the left
hand.

_Sixth day._—Itching at the margin of the left eyelids. 270. At noon,
pimple at the right lower part of the lower jaw. At ten o’clock in the
evening, in bed, smarting and itching of the puncta lachrymalis and the
left lower eyelid.

_Seventh day._—At two o’clock: Aching pain like a stitch in the side,
under the right lower ribs, for one minute.

_Tenth day._—At three o’clock in the afternoon, slight colic, and nausea.
Dull and heavy head, with weak legs.

_Eleventh day._—275. At eleven o’clock, hypochondria, sadness, despair;
he imagines that he is abandoned by his family.

_Twelfth day._—Fatigue, and weakness of sight.

_Thirteenth day._—Eyes red, with weak sight, he reads with difficulty.
The upper and lower limbs feel weak.

_Fourteenth day._—Eyes weary, sight weak. 280. Short, dull, painful
lancinations in the pectoral muscles, rather internal, without impeding
the breathing.

_Fifteenth day._—Weariness of the eyes, pressure at the superior portion
of the orbits. Headache. At nine o’clock in the evening, lancinating pain
in the biceps and triceps muscles of the arm, similar pain between the
shoulder-blade and the spinal column, in the trapezoid muscle. The throat
feels dry and irritated, compelling one to cough. 285. Dryness of the
glottis; causing a cough as from a cold.

_Sixteenth day._—Itching at the margin of the eyelids.

_Seventeenth day._—Sense of stoppage in the ears; afterwards as if
air-bubbles were passing through the left ear (for two or three seconds).
Small smarting pimples on the lower part of the right leg.

_Twenty-third day._—Diarrhœa.

_Twenty-seventh day._—290. Nocturnal emission. Weight at the frontal
muscle. Heat about the head. Painful stitch in the ileo-cœcal region,
recurring several times when walking or moving about. Slight nausea.

_Thirtieth day._—295. Pain as from weariness in the outer portion of the
left crural muscle when pressing upon it.

_Thirty-first day._—This pain is very marked and continues all day.

_Thirty-second day._—Violent headache in the left side of the head.

_Thirty-third day._—Headache in the side of the head.

_Thirty-fourth day._—In the evening, slight pain in the lumbar muscles as
from weariness.

_Thirty-fifth day._—300. The weariness in the loins continues in the
morning. At 9 o’clock in the evening, slight pain as from weariness, with
an acute lancination in the lumbar region, for one second.

_Thirty-sixth day._—At noon, long-lasting lancinating pain under the left
big toe. A good appetite for some days past.

_Thirty-seventh day._—305. Hard, scanty and difficult stool. Absence
of mind. Not disposed to work. Peevish. Red eyelids. 310. Lazy, weary.
Constant yawning.

_Thirty-eighth day._—Hungry, two hours after a copious meal. Tightness at
the stomach, in the evening.

_Thirty-ninth day._—At five o’clock in the morning, violent sensation
of hunger, with tensive and pressive pain at the stomach; when lying,
the pain extends to the umbilical region. 315. The pain during a walk
continues; pressure after eating; painful sensation of hunger. Acute pain
at the stomach, with constant hunger. Frequent desire to urinate. The
urine deposits a white sediment. At noon, pressive pain at the stomach,
before and after eating. 320. Acute pain, like a stitch, at the anterior
surface of the right lung, which hinders breathing. Absence of mind, he
makes many mistakes, mistakes one month for another, for several days. He
mistakes the street twice. During the last days of the proving, frequent
urination with whitish deposit.

Third prover: Mme. Al. j., 26 years old, sanguine temperament, good
constitution.

_First day._—Took one dose of the 5th attenuation, at 10 o’clock in the
evening.

In the morning on waking, doughy taste in the mouth, and great
drowsiness. 325. She dreams about death, burial. Small painful pimples
on the left side of the tongue. Burning at the stomach. Stiffness at the
nape of the neck. Weakness of the legs and arms. 330. Nausea at two
o’clock. Fever: face of a scarlet-red, hands burning-hot. Depression of
spirits, has no desire to do any thing, nothing pleases him. White spots
on the tongue. Frequent desire to urinate. 335. Feeling of weariness all
over. Sense of pain with heat at the sacrum.

_Second day._—Lancinating pain, zig-zag, in the uterus, at half past six
in the morning. Slight leucorrhœa. Dry cough. 340. Pain in the groin,
compressive sensation as during parturition. Lancination from the lumbar
region to the coccyx.

_Third day._—Restless night, frequent waking. On waking, sense of
weariness, as if strained. Acute pain in the palm of the left hand,
proceeding from the index, and describing a circle extending to the
carpal articulation of the thumb. 345. Very weary, especially the left
leg. At half past 12, third night, writhing colic. Violent diarrhœa
at one o’clock, with pains similar to those which she had experienced
on her return from a voyage to Brazil. Fetid stool, with white little
worms. 350. The diarrhœa continues and is succeeded by a great weakness
of the chest. Violet-colored cheeks. Heat in the cheeks and temples. Red
forehead. Small miliary vesicles on the right cheek, on the middle of the
forehead and on the left cheek. 355. Listless, she attends to things as
if she took no sort of interest in them.

_Fifth day._—Dreams about a church-yard; she placed torches on the
graves. On waking, her face is bloated and scarlet-red. Blotches on the
right cheek, similar to those which she had after her return from a
voyage to Brazil (at this time an enormous crusty tetter commenced in
this way). Intolerable heat at the chest, at two o’clock, violent pain
and burning sensation at the sternum.

_Sixth day._—360. Restless sleep. Nervousness, impatience, at half past
12. Dry heat in the hands.

_Seventh day._—Small vesicular pimple at the right wrist-joint. Marked
feeling of heaviness from the parietal bone to the lower attachment of
the sterno-mastoideus muscle, at the upper side of the sternum. 365. At
two o’clock: the weight, at times, descends to the forehead, with heat.
Small pimple on the right wrist, red at its base, containing a fluid.

_Eighth day._—No sleep. Twisting pain in the left side, or lancinations
around the pelvis; the pain passes off soon and extorts cries from her,
at 9 o’clock in the morning. Burning all over.

_Ninth day._—370. Twisting pain at the scapulo-humeral articulation.
Acute pain under the breast. Half past twelve: the pain at the
scapulo-humeral articulation recurs from time to time with great
violence. Five o’clock in the evening: the pain is constant but less,
always of the same kind. Half past nine: miliary eruption in the face.
375. Small red pimples on the right cheek, smarting on the right cheek,
the eruption first showed itself at 7 o’clock in the morning. Miliary
eruption on the shoulders, with itching, in the evening. Red vesicular
pimples, they break when pressed upon, and discharge a smart stream of
water.

_Tenth day._—Dulness of the head, in the morning, on rising. Red face,
the little pimples are less apparent. 380. Pain at the stomach, as from
hunger, though she is not hungry. She swallows her saliva. She has to eat
to quiet her pain.

_Eleventh day._—Headache, slight beating at the forehead, during a
considerable portion of the night. The headache continues with a
heaviness in the forehead, in the morning.

_Twelfth day._—385. Small pimples on the back, with itching. Nosebleed,
at 8 o’clock. Hard stool for 8 days. Nosebleed, at 10 o’clock.

_Thirteenth day._—390. Restless night, dream about a sea-voyage.
Heaviness of the head, nosebleed on rising. Headache, heaviness with
beating in the forehead, all day. Red pimples on the shoulders, with
pricking when touched. Lancination and pricking in the left little
finger, three or four different times.

_Fourteenth day._—395. Hot and red face. Itching red pimples on the
shoulders.

_Fifteenth day._—Sense as of crumbs in the eyes. Sclerotica red, with
margins around the eyes, red eyelids, red face. Red pimples on the sides
of the hips, smarting.

_Sixteenth day._—400. Sharp pain, followed by an acute lancinating pain
about the heart.

_Seventeenth day._—At eight o’clock in the morning, sharp, lancinating
pain, by fits and starts, at the right side of the sacrum, more or less
violent. Ten o’clock in the evening: wry neck on the right side.

_Eighteenth day._—While slumbering, sensation as if she were hanging
three feet from the ground. Sensation as if she would fall into a ditch.
405. Coldness and heat, alternating at night.

_Nineteenth day._—Acute pain at the left hip, at 9 o’clock in the
morning. The pain recurs at 9 o’clock in the evening, and continues for
several days at the same hour. Pain at the uterus as if compressed. Pain
at the heart, which is at times very sharp, almost unbearable. 410. The
breathing is arrested; this pain makes her very uneasy. Lancinating pain
in the head.

_Twentieth day._—Pain at the left knee, as if sprained.

_Twenty-first day._—Writhing colic, and diarrhœa, five times in the day.

_Twenty-second day._—Restless night. 415. In the evening, pain at the
loins and on each side of the ovary. Violent lancinations with prickling,
afterwards lancinating pain in the vagina; appearance of the menses, but
very slight.

_Twenty-third day._—Pain in the uterus as if a sharp instrument were
thrust in. Lancinating pain above the left breast. Pain at the right
little toe, like an intermittent throbbing, with intolerable prickling,
at half past 10 o’clock in the evening.

_Twenty-fourth day._—420. Sleep disturbed by a violent itching caused by
small pimples on the shoulders. In the morning, the pain of the little
toe returns, but it does not last as long as the day previous. Pain in
the renal region, with sense of weariness in the region of the sacrum.
Cold and heavy pain at the left hip. Painful pricking in the wrist and
along the left hand, between the middle and ring-finger.

_Twenty-fifth day._—425. Prickings and stitch above the left breast,
hindering breathing, whether walking or sitting. Acute pain when drawing
breath.

_Twenty-sixth day._—Sense as if sprained in the left knee and cracking
when walking.

_Twenty-eighth day._—Restless night. Desire to cry. 430. Fever, inability
to close her hand. Sad, vexing thoughts.

_Twenty-ninth day._—Sensation as if floating in the air. No sleep.
Starting in bed. 435. Sensation as if she were falling to the ground.
Lancinating pain under the heart; it continues, more or less feeble. Bad
digestion, the stomach feels yet full since supper.

_Thirtieth day._—Restless night, starting during sleep. Sense of
weariness in the lumbar region, all night. 440. Pain at the sacrum
as from a recent blow, this pain increases until four o’clock in the
evening. Pressure at the sacrum, with weariness in the left thigh.
Heaviness at the sacrum, when sitting. Sensation as if worms were
crawling in the posterior and external portion of the sacrum.

_Thirty-first day._—The pain at the sacrum obliges her to keep bent;
this pain shifts up and down from the sacrum to the left thigh, and is
accompanied by chattering of the teeth, which interrupts the speech, and
by cold hands and feet. 445. Quickly-passing tingling and twisting pain
in the right leg, at three o’clock in the evening, when lying. Twisting
pain extending from the sacrum into the left leg, and obliging her to lie
down. Every paroxysm of pain excites a nervous laugh, with moanings like
those of a sick child. Sensation as if dogs had bitten her where the pain
is felt. Sensation as if she had a plaster at the region of the kidneys.
450. The pain descends along the vastus externus muscle. Mottled face,
in the beginning of the proving it became red, now it is sometimes pale.
She cannot walk, without fearing to fall. No solicitude for the future,
generally speaking; tears with ennui; she thinks of death without fearing
it. The pain at the sacrum is worse when sitting, and obliges her to lie
down.

_Thirty-second day._—455. Sleep during the night, but the pain in the
renal region returns as soon as she rises from bed. The pain is seated
in the sacro-lumbar articulation; it extends to the glutei muscles with
sensation as though she were gnawed by dogs. At times the right thumb
feels numb.

_Thirty-third day._—Pain in the vertebral column. Sense of luxation, with
pain in the glutei muscles, of the same nature as the day previous.

_Thirty-fourth day._—460. Twisting sensation in the groin. Nosebleed,
when lying. Vesicular pimples all over, with red spots as if the skin had
been rubbed. Large blotches on the legs like mosquito-bites. Sensation
in the renal region and buttocks as if gnawed by dogs. 465. Continual
sneezing for two hours.

_Thirty-seventh day._—Sensation in the thighs, as if bitten by dogs. The
pimples increase during an increase of temperature, and leave large red
spots in the renal region and on the hips. Since she had the pains in the
sacrum, she is unable to sleep or rest on the stomach.

_Thirty-eighth day._—Uneasiness, sometimes she cries in the street. 470.
Acute headache, like a circle which rolls quickly over the forehead.
Dizziness. Profuse nosebleed from both nostrils. The nosebleed is
preceded by a smell of blood. Red face, with little pimples between the
skin and flesh. 475. Heat at the face. Sensation as if the skin of the
face were stretched too much. Frequent emission of watery urine. Sense of
coldness in the right-thigh.

_Fortieth day._—480. Dreams about dead bodies, assassins, decayed oxen,
yellow water. Continual nosebleed, especially in the morning. The pains
in the renal region decrease.

_Forty-third day._—Nervous twitching at the left lower eyelid.

_Forty-fifth day._—Flow of sad thoughts; she imagines she will lose
somebody who is dear to her. 485. She cries every moment, and, for
several days past imagines she is seeing the dead person before her eyes.

_Fifty-eighth day._—Painful sensibility of the whole right half of the
head, especially when touching it. Lancinations in the jaws, pain at the
right arm. Impatience, anger; she bites her hands, and gets mad because
her ideas flow too slowly.

Fourth prover: Mlle E. R. 17 years, sanguine temperament, good
constitution. 490. At 8 o’clock in the morning, the ball of the thumb of
each hand is painful. 9 o’clock: her feelings are excited and she cries
a good deal. 10 o’clock: numbness of the right index, every minute. Half
past 10: cold and clammy feet, followed by heat for three hours. Half
past 11: short lancinations in the last two left molares, lower jaw;
numbness in the bend of the right arm. 495. Lancination in the right
index-finger, and especially in the articulation of the last phalanx.
Sensation of a small ball under the left breast; at the same time,
lancination under the left shoulder, for 5 minutes. At noon, large red
spot on the lower part of the left cheek. Half past 12: heat at the face,
for half an hour. Half past 12: small pimples on the left cheek, above
the nose and near the lower lip; they are red, with a small white point
in the middle. 500. At two o’clock, beating in the right index-finger.
At half past 2, lancination in the gums. At a quarter past four; pain in
the gums corresponding to the left eye, with heat in the face. Burning in
the left cheek, weight at the eyes, lancinating pains in the ears. Pain
at the outer ankle, as from a blow. 505. Frontal headache, at half past 9
in the evening. Cold sweat on the face. Pressure in the orbits, as from a
violent headache. The teeth and gums are painful when pressing the teeth
against each other; the pain extends to the nose. Toothache on the left
side.

_Second day._—510. Half past seven, white-coated tongue. Slight pain
shifting from the left ear, where it commenced, to the left orbit.
Small pimple at the inside of the left elbow, causing a smart itching.
Half past 7, lancinations in the right side, every second. Cold feet.
515. Eight o’clock, pain as if the right arm had been stretched a long
time, contusive pain at the back of the right hand, especially at the
middle-finger. Lancinations in the gums on the right side. Itching at
the forehead. Small pimples at the forehead. Suffocative oppression
in the chest, especially when thinking of any thing contrary. 520. The
oppression ascends and immediately after descends again. Heat mounting to
the face. Pain at the sternum. Lancinations in the temples. Pain in the
gums on the left side. 525. Discouraged, does not wish to do any thing.
Weight at the arms. Suffocative oppression in the chest. Ten o’clock in
the evening, pain in the orbits as from a violent headache, or as from
looking fixedly at the same object.

_Third day._—Half past 6 in the morning, the right cheek is quite
swollen, without toothache. 530. Red pimple on the left cheek, in the
middle, and on the left side of the neck, with a good deal of itching.
Nine o’clock, beating at the right side of the thorax, almost under
the shoulder. Half past 3, pain at the right wrist; all the veins and
fibres hurt her. Half past 8, oppression at the stomach. Twisting colic.
535. Nine o’clock, heat at the face. Half past 10, desire to cry. Since
taking the drug, the least thing irritates her; at such times she feels
oppressed, with desire to cry, she blushes, sighs a good deal, several
times a day. Less appetite. Pain at the chest, especially the left
breast, when lying; the pain gradually passes to the right side.

_Fourth day._—540. Since the first day, she wakes sooner than previously;
her sleep was heavy and she was unable to open her eyes. Now she opens
them easily, and the ideas come to her at once. Half past 5, shuddering
all over, she feels oppressed, wants to cry. Colic, with cold feet. Eight
o’clock, the shuddering extends over the legs; she feels oppressed and
has cold feet. 545. Nine o’clock, prickling at the tongue on the left
side, causing a good deal of water to accumulate in her mouth. Nervous
pain shifting speedily from the orbits to the forehead, and disappearing
at once. She sighs a good deal. Ten o’clock, she feels sick at the
stomach, as from hunger, generally she is not hungry till noon. Hungry,
sometimes shortly after a meal. 550. Pain as from pressing strongly on a
sore behind the right ear, and under the neck, at the larynx; pain when
moving the head. Cold feet, at 10 o’clock in the morning. Hunger, with
pain in the stomach, at 11 o’clock. Tightness at the root of the nose,
for an instant. Short lancinations all over the face, with tightness of
the head emanating from the temples. 555. Slight contusive pain under the
false right ribs.

_Fifth day._—At noon, oppression hindering breathing. Oppression in the
chest, causing her to sigh a good deal. Numbness of the head. The face,
and head, from the vertex, pain her horribly. 560. Contusive pain between
the ring- and little finger, only for a moment; reaching up to the elbow.
Tightness at the back of the head. Pain as from weariness in front of and
behind the neck. Frequent desire to urinate. The left cheek is very red.
565. Redness of the wing of the nose. Shuddering along the back and legs
while taking breakfast. At 5 o’clock, oppression and sighs. Pain in the
ear, and half of the jaw, followed by pricking in the ear. At a quarter
past 5 o’clock, colic and shuddering. 570. At 8 o’clock, pain as from
weariness between the shoulders. At 9 o’clock, oppression on the chest.
She sighs a good deal. Internal trembling. Cold sweat on the feet. 575.
At half past 10, red blotch on the right shoulder; hot feet, after lying
down, in bed.

_Sixth day._—At 6 o’clock, colic, with diarrhœa and internal trembling.
Shuddering at half past 6. Red spot and itching at the forearm. At 7
o’clock, colic with diarrhœa and shuddering. 580. Nervous laughter
which causes her to shudder. Cold feet, shuddering in the left leg.
At 8 o’clock, cracking in the right forearm. Lancination in the left
gums, reaching to the right ear. At a quarter past 8, red spot like a
flea bite, on the back of the left hand. 585. Dulness of the head, with
weight at the orbits. Cold feet, especially the left. At 9 o’clock,
oppression on the chest, with sighing. At 11 o’clock, weight at the
orbits, as from sleep. Crampy pain at the right wrist, shifting to
the arm and then to the axilla. 590. Colic at the stomach. Oppression
and sighing. Trembling of the right arm, and beating at the anterior
surface of the wrist. At a quarter past 11, rheumatic pain at the right
shoulder. Small vesicular pimples on the lower lip, itching a good
deal. 595. Pain as from having been lying in a wrong position, under
the arm, under the right sight side of the chest. Painful beating above
the right breast. Painful lancinations in the head, striking to the ear
and the left teeth, and then shifting to the upper part of the orbit.
Drowsy at noon. Pain between the shoulders, worse by pressing against the
sternum. 600. Contusive pain at the left leg. Painful stitch at the outer
breast, extending under the arm. Hungry, but satiated at once. Itching
at the right outer ankle. Numbness of the right arm, as far as the left
index-finger, all the muscles hurt him. 605. At one o’clock, formication
in the soles of the feet. At half past one, contusive pain in the back,
at the hips and in the renal region. Strong pressure at the left temple.
Drowsy at 2 o’clock. Colic at half past 3. 610. At 4, beating at the
outer side of the right wrist. Nervous shuddering all through the chest,
and passing between the shoulders. Lancination from the left side of the
head to the eye, temples, above the ear and in the lower jaw. Whizzing
in the ears. Pain at the stomach as from hunger. 615. Lancination in the
left breast. Lancination in the first phalanx of the middle-finger. At
4, toothache on the left side, affecting the eyes. Violent pain in the
back as if weary, and affecting the lumbar region. Pain at the stomach,
oppression, sighs. 620. Lancination in the left gums. At 4, beating in
the right external ankle. Lancination in the whole jaw. Redness, and heat
mounting to the face; cheeks and forehead are redder than the rest of the
face. At half past 8, oppression, pain at the stomach, as from hunger.

_Seventh day._—625. At 6, colic, diarrhœa and shuddering. At 8, merry,
with desire to laugh, followed by shuddering in the head and legs.
Cold feet. Lancination in the left lower gums, tightness of the nose,
felt even in the jaw. Feelings excited, oppressed, as from some great
misfortune. 630. Nervous pain below the bend of the right elbow,
descending to the ring- and little fingers, at 10 in the morning. Painful
pressure on the left shoulder, which is very sensitive, at 11 in the
morning. Beating at the right shoulder. At 11, lancination in the gums
and left eye. Stiff neck, the least motion causes a pain in the nape of
the neck and gums. 635. Weight at the eyes and in the head. Numbness at
the nape of the neck. Sensation as of a bar through the jaws, from ear
to ear, with tightness of the head. Tightness at the root of the nose.
640. The teeth are painful when chewing. Pain in the back, under the
right shoulder, accompanied by beatings in the chest. Cold feet at one
o’clock. Beatings in the right side of the chest. Heat in the face and
drowsy after dinner. 645. Weight at the orbits. Pain in the side, with
lancinations in the right breast. Pain in the bend of the right elbow,
worse when moving it. Beating at the lip of the right index-finger.
Suffocative oppression, causing her to sigh a good deal. 650. Colic,
yawning. Beatings at the tip of the tongue, on the left side. At half
past 2, pain in the renal region when sitting. Heat and pain in all the
toes. Numb pain from the wrist to the upper part of the right arm. 655.
Stiffness and beating in the left side of the neck, especially when
moving the head. At half past 8 in the evening, beating in the right
orbit, afterwards in the sides. Beating at the root of the nose. Painful
stitches in the right side, hindering breathing. At a quarter past 10,
aching and contusive pain in the right side. 660. Pain as from weariness
below the right shoulder. Head heavy and dull, the least motion affects
her eyes and the region of the orbits. Lancinations in the gums and heat
in the face.

_Eighth day._—At 6, colic and diarrhœa. Lancination in the left breast,
at 2 in the evening. 665. Pain in the right renal region. At noon, pimple
on the forehead, left side. At 2, heat in the face. At 4, beating in the
right, and sometimes left orbit. At 6, painful stitch in the right side,
hindering breathing. 670. At 7, sadness, desire to weep. Rush of blood
to the head. Heat in the face. At 10, nosebleed. At 11, cold and clammy
feet, while lying down. 675. Hot feet, some time after.

_Ninth day._—At 6, pain in the right thigh, high up, at the outer side,
causing her to limp. Painful stitch in the left breast. At half past 7,
desire to weep, oppression as from some emotion. At half past 8, desire
to weep, the least trifle makes her sad; she starts when hearing a
door opened suddenly. 680. She is oppressed and breathes heavily. Pain
in the right wrist, striking to each finger. Hot face. Great desire to
weep, even while singing, followed by oppression, at half past 9 in the
morning; she weeps. Acute nervous pain from the shoulder to the left
breast. 685. Pain at the bend of the right elbow. Heaviness in the eyes
and desire to sleep, at a quarter of one. Beating in the left side of the
abdomen. Beating in the pit of the stomach, reverberating in the whole
chest. Frequent ineffectual urging to stool. 690. Tight pain above the
ears, with numbness of the jaw. Heaviness in the whole head. Lancination
in the left lower gums; shortly after, lancination in the upper gums.
Stiffness of the nape of the neck. Hot face. 695. Loud whizzing in the
left ear. Drowsy. Numbness of the gums. Deep sighing, yawning. Mounting
of heat to the face, now and then. 700. Pain in the left gums striking
to the eye and behind the ear. At one o’clock, heat, no appetite.
Lancinations in the gums, reverberating in the whole head. Violent
beating at the left temple. Numbness of the left wrist, the whole hand
is painful. 705. Acute pain in the left gums, the whole left side of the
head is numb. Warm hands and cold sweat, at 3 in the afternoon.

_Tenth day._—Torpor of the head, with numbness in the upper gums and the
muscles of the eye. Pain at the right hip, at one o’clock. Tightness
at the epigastrium; her feelings are very much excited, as if some
misfortune should happen to her, at 2 in the afternoon. 710. Pain in the
right ear. Pain in the left cheek and gums. Beating in the arm and right
wrist. Weight at the right orbit, at 3. Little appetite. 715. Cold sweat
in the face, at half past 6. Suffocative oppression. Drowsy, at half past
8. Hot face, at 9.

_Eleventh day._—Restless sleep. 720. Doughy mouth, at 6 in the morning.
Inflammation of the left puncta lacrymalis. Pain at the right gums and
cheek, at noon. Burning of the cheeks, from one to four.

_Twelfth day._—Small pimples in the face, at 6 in the morning. 725.
Pain in the renal regions, at 9. Weakness of the legs. Beating under
the right hip. Pain at the gums, at 11. At 2 in the afternoon, pain and
beating under the left shoulder. 730. At 8, small pimples on the chin,
itching a good deal. At half past 8 in the evening, colic and cold sweat.

_Thirteenth day._—Eyes bloated, surrounded by margins. Colic and
diarrhœa. Uneasiness when lying down. 735. Leucorrhœa. The period sets in
8 days before its time. Profuse menses. At half past 6, lancination in
the left gums. At 7, lancinations in the jaw. 740. Tightness at the root
of the nose. Numbness of the right arm. At 9, whizzing in the right ear.
Pain and beating on the right shoulder. At 10, beating in the left little
finger, thumb and index-finger. 745. Burning at the whole hand. Violent
itching at the index-finger, the whole of the left arm is painful,
especially the wrist joint. At half past 10, beating pain near the right
internal ankle. Hot feet. Toothache, on the left side. 750. At 11, pain
and itching at the left foot, violent pain in the whole of the right
foot. Violent pain near the inner canthus of the left eye. Pain in the
left wrist-joint. Beating in the right index-finger. At noon, bloating of
the lower eyelids. 755. Redness on the left side of the nose. Pain in the
wrist and bend of the left arm. Contusive pain at the right knee. Pain in
the left gums. Pain in the legs as from weariness. 760. At 2, lancinating
pain shifting from the knees to the right elbow, then to the shoulder,
to the right foot, right wrist, and lastly to the knees. At half past
2, nervous pain in the renal region. Pain behind and in the right ear.
Colic. Pain in the left gums, striking to the root of the nose. 765.
Pain in the left wrist. Pain as from weariness in the back, near the
left shoulder. Whizzing in the right ear. Pain as if her arm were pulled
violently. Painful stiffness in the left side of the neck.

_Fourteenth day._—770. At half past 6, pain in the wrist. Pain behind the
head and in the neck, reverberating in the left gums. Stiff neck. Pain
and beating in the elbow, at the right forearm and in the bend of the
left elbow. Rheumatic pain in the right shoulder, passing under the arm.
775. Painful stitch in the left breast. At noon, the left foot burns,
the right foot is cold. Heat and pain at the right index-finger. At half
past one, heat at the feet, especially the right foot. Pain at the right
little toe. 780. At 2, pain at the tip of the tongue. At 10, pain in the
left gums.

_Fifteenth day._—At 10 in the morning, pain at the gums. Suffocative
oppression of the chest. At 9 in the evening, nervous trembling of the
right arm.

_Sixteenth day._—785. At noon, beating at the right middle and
index-finger.

_Seventeenth day._—Dreams about purchases. At half past 9, pain at the
right arm, shifting to the little finger. Pain at the left breast, almost
under the shoulder. Numbness of the right wrist. 790. Beating at the
right shoulder. Lancination in the left gums. At half past 10, pain in
the whole right hand. Pain in the right orbit. Pain at the left wrist and
in the whole hand. 795. Pain in extending the left arm. At noon, nervous
shuddering. Burning pain with red spot above the right elbow. Nervous
pain shifting from the eye to the gums, with beating at the left temple.
Violent beating in the left side of the thorax, under the shoulder. 800.
Heaviness at the left orbit. Lancinations in the right wrist and thumb.
Drowsy, at 2. Numbness of the arm. At 3, pain in the back and chest. 805.
Beating at the right temple. Violent pain like a stitch, in the left
breast. At 2, slight itching at the knee, below the lower lip, changing
to an acute pain when rubbed, which lasts all day.

_Eighteenth day._—Dreams about mutilated bodies, dead bodies, with the
arms cut off. At half past 6, pain under the lower lip, with swelling on
the left side, and a large red pimple in the centre of the swelling. 810.
At 8, pain and prickling at the right shoulder. Beating above the right
knee. At 5, cold feet, hot face.

_Nineteenth day._—Dreams about children, prisoners being set free. At
half past 8, cold feet. 815. At 3, pain in the orbits and forehead. At
half past 4, pain at the gums passing to the left eye. Pain at the right
wrist, between the thumb and index-finger, also near the bend of the
arm. Nervous beating in the left orbit. The skin on the forehead feels
stretched. 820. Impatient; she wants to break every thing. Absence of
mind at work. She imagines she is alone in the world and lost. Weeping
without cause, followed by nervous laugh. Sad, melancholy; she thinks of
the future, feels unhappy.

_Twentieth day._—825. At one o’clock in the afternoon, sickness at the
stomach after eating. Hemicrania, pains all through the head. Drowsy,
with nausea. Tightness of the back part of the head. Sharp pain behind
the ears. 830. The least thing hurts her, causing horrible pains in the
forehead, temples and under the chin. Lancination behind the neck, on the
left side. Beating in the left breast. Cold feet. At 5, shuddering all
the time. 835. Headache when walking. Horrible pain and beating in the
chest. Involuntary closing of the eyelids. Pain in the gums. Internal
trembling. 840. Rush of blood to the head; she turns red.

_Twenty-first day._—From the 11th to the 21st day, profuse menses with
leucorrhœa. At half past 2, pain and beating in the left shoulder. At 3,
beating in the left side of the head. Drowsy: heaviness of the head.

_Twenty-second day._—845. No sleep. Colic with diarrhœa, from the 18th
day. Heaviness of the head. From the 23d to the 28th day, horrible colic,
every morning, with diarrhœa, and pains in the middle of the back.
Nervous, she starts when a chair is moved with a little noise. 850. She
turns red, and her chest feels oppressed. Every day, after breakfast,
she has an attack of oppression on the chest. Difficult digestion after
breakfast; after noon she turns pale.

_Thirty-third day._—She feels hot at the hands, feet and face, though the
hands are cold and clammy to contact; she thinks this is likewise the
case with her feet and face. Cold sweat on the face and body.

_Thirty-fourth day._—855. The eyes are bloated and smaller. Painful
pimples when touched, on the left cheek and at the eyebrows.

_Thirty-fifth day._—Starting from the least noise. Yawns all the evening.

_Thirty-eighth day._—Violent pain in the chest, shifting to the left
breast, sometimes to the right, especially when moving the arm. 860.
Headache.

_Thirty-ninth day._—Pain and sense of weariness in the renal region.
Dreams about travelling and parties. Drowsy at one in the afternoon.
Hot face. 865. Coryza. Face dull and dark, with paleness, mottled with
red spots. Pain in the renal region, as from falling on the sacrum.
Copper taste in the mouth. Pain in left side hindering breathing. 870.
Inflammation of the right eye.


ARRANGEMENT OF THE SYMPTOMS ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

MENTAL AND MORAL: 1. Sensation as if floating in the air. Dizziness.
She imagines she sees a dead person, and cries. Sensation as if falling
to the ground. 5. Sensation as if hanging three feet from the ground.
Listless. Absence of mind, he makes mistakes. She imagines she is alone
in the world. Laughter with shuddering. 10. Weeping, followed by a
nervous laugh. Sad, thinks of the future. Desire to weep, with oppression
and tendency to start. Merry, with desire to laugh, followed by
shuddering in the head and legs. Depression of spirits. 15. Impatience,
because her ideas flow too slowly. Impatience. Peevish. Sadness, despair,
he imagines he is abandoned. Thinks of his salvation during a paroxysm.
20. Irritable.

HEAD: Lancinating pain at the top of the head. Beating pain from the
occiput to the vertex. Pain in the head, like a weight. Headache down
to the eyebrows and eyes. 25. Contractive sensation in the skin of the
forehead. Headache as from a nail in the vertex. Aching pain at the
forehead and vertex. Headache on the left side. Semilateral headache.
30. Heat about the head. Slight beating at the forehead. Weight at the
frontal muscle. Dulness of the head, in the morning. The right half of
the head is painfully sensitive. 35. Headache as if a circle were rolling
over the forehead. Frontal headache. Dulness of the head, with weight at
the orbits. Numbness of the head. The face and head, from the vertex
pain her horribly. 40. Tightness at the back of the head. Painful darting
in the head, striking to the ear, teeth, and then shifting to the orbit.
Pressure at left temple. Heaviness of the head. Tightness of back part of
the head. 45. Rush of blood to the head. Beating in left side of head.
Headache. Hemicrania. Heaviness of the head. 50. Torpor of the head, with
numbness of the upper gums and muscles of the eye.

FACE: Weary look. Burning smarting in the beard, left side. Hot face.
Swelling below the zygoma, with sensitiveness to contact. 55. Pale face,
with sunken eyes. Beating in the left side of the face. Livid complexion.
The face looks weary. Sensation as if the skin of the face were stretched
too much. 60. Mottled face, red and pale alternately. Cold sweat in the
face. Lancinations all over the face, with tightness proceeding from the
temples. Swelling of the right cheek. The left cheek is very red. 65.
Cold sweat in the face. Mounting of heat to the face. Burning of the
cheeks.

EYES: Bloated eyes. Inflammation of the left eye. 70. Beating in left
orbit. Pain in the orbits and forehead. Heaviness at left orbit. Pain
shifting from the eye to the gums. Pain in right orbit. 75. Beating in
the orbits. Beating in the right orbit, afterwards in the sides. Nervous
pain shifting from the orbits to the forehead. Pressure in the orbits as
from a severe headache. Sensation as of crumbs in the eyes. 80. Redness
of the sclerotica, with margins around the eyes, red lids. Weariness
of the eyes, with pressure at the superior portion of the orbits. Weak
sight. Dimness of sight and prickling in the lids. Beating pressure at
the sclerotica. 85. Red eyes, with pale face. Prickling in the eyes.
Bloating in the eyes. Sense as of dust in the eyes. Violent pain near the
left inner canthus. 90. Inflammation of left puncta lachrymalis. Smarting
and itching of the puncta lachrymalis, in the evening, in bed. Burning
at right inner canthus. Involuntary closing of the eyelids. Bloating
of the lower eyelids. 95. Twitching of left lower eyelid. Itching at
the eyelids. Prickling at the margin of the eyelids, in the day-time.
Sensation of coldness in the lids when closing them. Beating in the lids.
100. Sparks and zig-zag before the eyes. Dizziness, with waves before the
eyes.

EARS: Stoppage of the ears, as if air-bubbles were passing through the
left ear. Pain shifting from the left ear to the orbit. Lancinating pains
in the ears. 105. Pain in the ear and jaw, followed by pricking in the
ear. Pain in the right ear. Tight pain above the ears, with numbness of
the jaw. Pain in the right ear. Whizzing in right ear. 110. Sharp pain
behind the ears.

NOSE: Dry nose, with itching inside. Redness on the left side of the
nose. Redness of the wing of the nose. Beating at the root of the nose.
115. Nosebleed. Tightness at the root of the nose.

TEETH: The teeth and gums are painful when pressed against each other.
Short lancinations in the last two molares. Toothache on left side,
affecting the eyes. 120. Lancination in left lower gums, with tightness
of the nose and jaw. Darting in the gums and left eye. Sensation as of
a bar through the jaws, from ear to ear. The teeth are painful when
chewing. Lancinations in the jaws. 125. Numbness of the gums. Pain in
left gums striking to the eye. Lancinations in the gums, affecting the
whole head. Acute pain in the left gums, the whole left side of the head
being numb. Pain in the right gums and cheek. 130. Pain in left gums.
Toothache on left side. Lancination in the left gums. Swelling of the
left lower gums, with toothache.

MOUTH: Beating at the tip of the tongue. 135. Pain at the tip of the
tongue. Pricking at the tongue, with flow of water. White-coated tongue.
White spots on the tongue. Contraction of the papillæ on the tongue,
immediately. 140. Pain under the lower lip, with swelling and a red
pimple in the centre of it. Fleshy growths on the inner surface of the
lips.

GASTRIC: Coppery taste in mouth. Doughy taste every morning, with
chocolate-colored sputa and fetid smell. Smoky taste of the water. 145.
Violent sensation of hunger early in the morning, with tensive and
pressive pain at the stomach. Difficult digestion after breakfast. Sick
at the stomach, after eating. Hungry, shortly before a meal. She has to
eat to quiet her pain at the stomach. 150. Hungry after a good meal.
Uneasiness after dinner, every day. Loathing and nausea.

STOMACH: Oppression at the stomach, when standing. Uneasiness in the
stomach and chest, after standing. 155. Tightness at the stomach,
evening. Burning at the stomach. Oppressive pain at the stomach, before
and after eating. Pain at the stomach, with oppression, sighs. Beating in
pit of stomach, affecting the whole chest.

ABDOMEN: 160. Pain in the renal region as from falling on the sacrum.
Pain and feeling of weariness in the renal region. Colic with diarrhœa,
also every morning. Colic and cold sweat, or diarrhœa. Pain in the renal
region. 165. Tightness at the epigastrium, with excited feelings. Beat
in left side of abdomen. Colic with diarrhœa and shuddering. Twisting
colic. Twisting sensation in the groin. 170. Pain in the renal region,
with sense of weariness in the sacrum. Sensation as of a plaster in the
region of the kidneys. Pain at the loins and on each side of the ovary.
Lancinations around the pelvis, extorting cries. Compressive pain in the
groin. 175. Painful stitch in the ileo-cœcal region, again when stirring.
Acute pain in the right kidney, while walking. Tearing sensation in
the renal region. Sense of heat in the renal region. Shuddering at the
rectum. 180. Constrictive sensation at the anus.

STOOL, URINE: Ineffectual urging to stool. Constipation. Hard stool.
Diarrhœa succeeded by weakness of the chest. 185. Fetid stool with white
little worms. Lancination in the urethra. Watery urine with a greenish
tint. Urine with white sediment. Frequent desire to urinate. 190.
Frequent emission of watery urine.

SEXUAL: Nocturnal emission. Distressing erections. Taste of blood in
the mouth, during an embrace. Weight in the testicles in walking.
195. Profuse menses with leucorrhœa. Premature and profuse menses.
Lancinating pain in the vagina. Compressive pain at the uterus.
Lancinating pain in the uterus, in zig-zag. 200. Pain in the uterus as if
a sharp instrument were thrust in. Leucorrhœa.

BRONCHIAL, CHEST: Dry cough. Constant sneezing. Dry throat, she has
to cough. 205. Suffocative sensation rising to the larynx. Sense of
constriction in the upper part of the throat. Sneezing, with discharge
of lemon-colored mucus from the nose. Pain behind the right ear and at
the larynx as from pressing on a sore. Spitting of blood, with sense
of rawness in the throat and the respiratory passages, after talking.
210. Spits blood, coming deep out of the throat. Yellowish, heavy and
frothy expectoration. Oppression of the chest, with rush of blood to
the larynx, taste of blood, and tearing in the chest. Shifting pain in
the chest. Severe pain and beating in the chest. 215. Beating in left
breast. Pain in left side, hindering breathing. Stitch-like pain in the
left breast. Suffocative oppression of the chest. Painful stitch in the
left breast. 220. Deep sighing. Pain from the shoulders to the left
breast. Oppressed and heavy breathing. Painful stitch in left breast.
Suffocative oppression, with sighing. 225. Darting in left breast. Aching
and contusive pain in the right side. Painful stitches in the right side,
hindering breathing. Lancination in left breast. Painful stitch at the
outer breast, extending under the arm. 230. Painful beating above the
right breast. Pain at the right side as if strained. Contusive pain under
the false right ribs. Sensation as of a small ball under the left breast.
Acute pain when drawing breath. 235. Stitch above the left breast,
hindering breathing. Acute pain under the breast. Stitch-like pain at the
anterior surface of right lung, hindering breathing. Pain and burning at
the sternum. Intolerable heat at the chest. 240. Painful lancinations
in the pectoral muscles. Stitch-like pain under the right lower ribs.
Rheumatic pain at the sternum when stooping. Lancinating pain under the
heart.

NECK: Painful glandular swelling below the right ear. 245. Painful
stiffness of the neck. Rheumatic pain at left side of neck. Dark
redness and numbness of the sides of the neck, even a prick is not felt.
Heaviness along the side of the neck. Wry neck on the right side. 250.
Pain as from weariness in front of, and behind the neck. Numbness at
the nape of the neck. Stiffness of the nape of the neck. Stiffness and
beating in left side of neck. Painful stiffness in left side of neck.
255. Darting behind the neck, left side.

BACK: Tickling under the arms and along the dorsal spine. Horrid pain in
the sacro-lumbar region, when attempting to raise a weight. Contractive
sensation below the coccyx. Pain in the glutei muscles and sacrum, with
heat mounting to the face. 260. Painful stitch and beating between the
shoulder-blades. Sensation as of a warm liquid flowing from a sore in the
lumbar region. Throbbing at the sacrum. Painful breathing as from a sore
in the lumbar region. Beating in the lumbar region, with slight pulling
or shuddering. 265. Sense of heat, with throbbing and fatigue, in the
lumbar region. Prickling pain at the sacro-lumbar articulation in going
up-stairs. Inability to stoop forward, he then feels a pulling in the
lumbar region. Weakness in the sacro-lumbar region. Tearing and spraining
in the back, when sitting. 270. Painful weariness in the loins. Twisting
pain at the scapulo-humeral articulation. Pain in the sacrum, accompanied
by chattering of teeth. Twisting pain in the sacrum, exciting a nervous
laugh, with moanings. Pressure at the sacrum, with weariness in left
thigh. 275. Sense of worms crawling in the sacrum. Pain in the sacrum as
if gnawed by dogs. Sense of weariness in the lumbar region. Heaviness at
the sacrum when sitting. Pains in the sacrum preventing sleep, she has to
lie on her stomach.

UPPER EXTREMITIES: 280. Pain between the shoulders, worse when pressing
against the sternum. Pain in the back as if weary, affecting the lumbar
region. Pain and beating in left shoulder. Pain and prickling at right
shoulder. Weary pain near the left shoulder, behind. 285. Violent beating
under the left shoulder. Beating at the right shoulder. Rheumatic pain
in the right shoulder. Painful beating on the right shoulder, in the
left little finger, thumb, &c. Pain under the right shoulder, behind,
with beating in the chest. 290. Painful pressure on the left shoulder.
Rheumatic pain at the right shoulder. Pain at the right arm, shifting
to the little finger. Numbness of the arm. Burning pain above the right
elbow, with red spot. 295. The left arm is painful, with violent itching
of the index-finger. Trembling of the right arm. Pain as if her arm were
pulled. Pain in the bend of the left arm. Numbness of right arm. 300.
Pain in the bend of the right elbow. Numb pain from the wrist to the
upper part of the right arm. Crampy pain at right wrist, shifting to the
axilla. Pain at the right wrist, all the veins and fibres hurt. Painful
prickings in the wrist and along the left hand. 305. Pimple at the wrist,
on a red base. Pain at the right wrist. Dartings in right wrist and
thumb. Numbness of the right wrist. Pain in the wrists. 310. Numbness of
the left wrist, the hand being painful. Pain in right wrist, striking to
each finger. Beating in the arm and right wrist. Nervous pain from the
right elbow to the ring- and little fingers. Cracking in right forearm.
315. Numbness of the right arm, all the muscles hurt him. Trembling of
the right arm. Weight at the arms. Lancinating pain in the muscles of
the upper arm, and in the trapezoid muscle. Sense of weariness in the
arm, though lying down. 320. Pain in whole right hand. Burning at the
whole hand. Contusive pain at the back of the right hand. The ball of
the thumb of each hand is painful. Acute pain in the palm of the left
hand, proceeding from the index to the thumb in a circle. 325. Dry heat
in the hands. Dartings in the right hand. Heat in the nails of the left
hand and at the tips of the right fingers. Beating at right middle and
index-finger. Heat and pain at right index-finger. 330. Beating at the
tip of the right index-finger. Darting in first phalanx of middle-finger.
Contusive pain between the ring- and little fingers. Numbness of the
right index-finger. Lancination and pricking in left little finger.
335. Stitch in the right index-finger. Stinging in the ball of the
right thumb. Weakness of the finger-joints and wrists. Sensation as if
a portion of the nail of the right index-finger had become detached.
Sensation as of a splinter in the ring-finger. 340. Lancination in the
right index-finger.

LOWER EXTREMITIES: Beating under the right hip. Pain in right hip. Cold
and heavy pain at the left hip. Acute pain at the left hip. 345. Pain as
if sprained in the left hip-joint, when walking. Pain in right thigh,
high up, causing her to limp. Sensation in the thighs, as if bitten by
dogs. Sense of coldness in the right thigh. Weary pain on the left thigh,
when pressed upon. 350. Pain along the left thigh. Pain in the legs as
from weariness. Contusive pain at left leg. Tingling and twisting pain
in the right leg. Itching and smarting at the tibia, in front, at night.
355. Beating above the right knee. Slight itching at the knee, changing
to an acute pain when rubbed. Contusive pain at right knee. Spraining
sensation in left knee, with cracking when walking. Pain at the left
knee as if sprained. 360. Pain as from a sprain in left knee, with
dartings below the pan. Violent pain in the feet. Beating pain near the
right inner ankle. The left foot burns, the right foot is cold. Cold and
clammy feet, while lying down. 365. Beating in the right outer ankle.
Formication in the soles of the feet. Bruising pain at the outer ankle.
Cold and clammy feet, followed by heat. Heat and pain in the toes. 370.
Intermittent throbbing pain at the right little toe, with prickling.
Lancinating pain under the left big toe. Cramp in the toes. Pain as from
a splinter under the toe-nail.

SLEEP: Frequent yawning. 375. No sleep. Drowsy, with nausea. Restless
sleep. Heavy sleep at first, afterwards easy sleep and ready awakening to
consciousness. Starting during sleep. 380. Restless night, heat and sweat
all night. Drowsy in the afternoon. Dreams about travelling. Dreams about
dead bodies. Dreams about purchases. 385. Dreams about prisoners. Dreams
about dead bodies, decayed oxen, assassins. Dreams about a church-yard,
she places torches on the graves. Dreams about a sea-voyage. Dreams
with emissions. 390. Dreams about a revolution, &c. Restless sleep, with
dreams about wild beasts in a slaughter-house. Dreams about children with
their head half cut off. He dreams, that he was swimming in a river with
warm and green water.

FEVER: Moist heat mounting from the feet to the face. 395. Pulse
interrupted with roaring in the head. The body feels damp and cold. Cold
sweat at night. Burning all over. Alternate coldness and heat at night.
400. Fever, with inability to close her hands. Shuddering all over, with
oppression. Shuddering along the back and legs while taking breakfast.
Shuddering through the chest and between the shoulders. Cold feet, with
shuddering in the left leg. 405. Warm hands and cold sweat. Cold feet and
hot face. Shuddering. Cold feet with shuddering. She turns red and her
chest feels oppressed. 410. Cold sweat on the face and body.

CUTANEOUS: Miliary eruption in the joints. Vesicular pimples on left arm,
with itching. Miliary pimples at the bend of the elbow, with redness
around. Small red circle on the tibia, with red pimple in the middle.
415. Pimples all over, similar to those on the legs. Small smarting
pimples on the right knee, containing a fluid. Large pimples on the
legs, around the root of each hair. Painful pimples on the left side of
the tongue. Smarting red pimples on the right cheek. 420. Itching, red
pimples on the shoulders. Smarting red pimples on the side of the hips.
Vesicular pimples all over, with red spots. Miliary eruption in the face.
Large blotches on the legs. 425. Pimples leaving red spots behind. Small
itching pimple at the inside of the left elbow. Itching and pimples at
the forehead. Large red spot on the lower part of the left cheek. Small,
red pimples on the left cheek, with a white point in the middle. 430. Red
blotch on the right shoulder. Red spot and itching at the forearm. Red
spot on the back of the left hand. Red pimples on the left cheek. Small
vesicular pimples on the lower lip, itching. 435. Pimples in the face
and on the chin. The skin on the forehead feels stretched. Face mottled
with red spots. Painful pimples on left cheek and eyebrows. Itching of
the back, legs, arms. 440. Contusive pain in the back and the hips.
Lancinating pain shifting from the knees to the right elbow, shoulder,
right foot, &c. Uneasy when lying down. Pain in the back and chest. The
hands, feet and face feel hot to her, but clammy to others. 445. Liable
to starting. Internal trembling. Weakness of the legs and arms. Sense
of weariness as if strained, on waking. Weakness of the extremities.
450. Emaciation. Paleness, cold hands and feet, with weakness during the
pains. Fainting spell, with spasms, cramps in the calves and toes.




LEPIDIUM BONARIENSE (D. C.).

LEP. MASTRUCO.

[Illustration]


This plant is very common in the neighborhood of Rio, where it is
found along the roads and in stony regions. It is herbaceous, with
numerous glabrous, erect stems, attaining a height of from twenty to
thirty inches; the radical leaves are petiolate, finely indented; the
superior leaves are alternate, sessile and almost linear. It blossoms
in September. The flowers, which form terminal spikes, are supported by
filiform pedicles; calix with four folioles; corol small, cruciform, with
four hypozynous petals, six tetradynamous stamens, short style, small,
subelliptical pod, which is somewhat crenated at the top; root fibrous,
simple, erect.

The fresh leaves are triturated.

In Brazil the Lepidium bonariense is used for similar purposes as the
Arnica. It is universally used in domestic practice. The pathogenesis of
this plant may be perhaps welcome to our profession.

_First day._—1. Sleeps well until midnight; no sleep since then; has
pains all over when stirring. Heat all over, with dull pain; she had the
most pain on the left side. Violent pain in the left arm before rising;
she cannot stretch it; the more she covers it, the greater is the pain;
the pain ceases on uncovering the arm.

_Second day._—Dizziness at nine in the morning; her head fell forward and
she imagined the floor was sinking under her; every thing turned with
her. 5. At eleven, heat in the face, left side. Dull pain at the stomach,
followed by desire to vomit. Cold as when she had her spasms. Hunger
after dinner. In the evening, hot face. 10. Pain as if scratched, for an
hour, followed by heat, at the feet. Beating pain above the left ear.
Acute stitching pain in the lower gums, for an hour. Itching in the right
ear, worse when stooping, for half an hour. Dreams that she is talking
with dead people; very restless. 15. Sad on waking.

_Third day._—On rising, pain as from a crown pressing on her head.
Pain round the right ear, as if pricked with pins, ceasing by rubbing
the part; for a quarter of an hour. Stitch in the right lung for five
minutes. Pain at eminence in the left cheek, with redness. 20. Heat in
the mouth, on the left side, as from eating spice. Palpitation of the
heart, felt in the side, with violent pain hindering breathing; worse
when stooping, ceasing when lying down. At noon, boring pain at the
vertex, left side, extending to the ear. Heat in the nose, and sensation
as of a current of cold air in the left nasal fossa. Pain in the nape of
the neck, right side, ceasing by rubbing the part and moving the neck.
25. Sensation as if a knife were slowly penetrating into the heart,
ceasing when pressing for a few minutes strongly against the region of
the heart. Prickings at the shoulder-blade, extending along the right
side of the neck. Itching at the right nostril. Pricking at the skin,
followed by itching. Pricking in the ear, down the jaw. 30. Lancination
in the right breast, less when standing erect. Stitching pain under
the axilla, in a half-moon shape. Prickings between the breasts. Pain
as from a band on the right side, worse when pressed upon, hindering
breathing. Lancination in the spine of the shoulder-blade, shifting to
the other shoulder; less when standing erect. 35. Prickings in the left
hypochondrium. Stitch under the axilla. Desire for chocolate, salad,
green fruit. Great thirst for vinegar. Lancination in the heart, in the
evening. 40. Oppression after eating. Convulsive trembling of the heart.
Pain at the pit of the stomach after eating, worse when walking, or when
touching the part. The blood which is discharged on the second day of the
courses is darker and coagulated.

_Fourth day._—Band in the side as the day before. 45. Passing
lancinations in the abdomen, sides and breasts. Lancinations from the
elbow to the shoulder-blade. Heaviness and pressure on the bladder when
urinating. The menses cease after twenty-four hours. Short sleep. 50.
Desire to vomit all night. Formication above the left shoulder. Slight
spitting of blood after coughing. Cutting as with a penknife below the
left breast. Heat in the throat with desire to vomit, and noise in the
ears when swallowing the saliva. 55. Constrictive pain in the head.
Vertigo, with disposition to fall forward. Thick expectoration, which it
is difficult to get loose, with roaring in the ears. Painful stitch at
the knee, less when walking. Stitch in the cheeks. 60. Lancinations under
the axilla. Colic in the umbilical region. Hard hearing. Throbbing at the
epigastrium. Very sad, thinks of sickness. 65. Pain in the bone of the
left thumb, with trembling when attempting to use it. When attempting to
read her eyes fill with tears.

_Fifth day._—Sad, uneasy, quarrelsome, dissatisfied, deep sleep.

_Sixth day._—Dim eye as if looking through a white gauze; when looking
at the sky, the air looks gray. Her left eye is full of water; the pain
is worse when moving, it follows the eyebrow, for six hours. 70. Crampy
pain at the right ring-finger, extending to the elbow, contracting the
flexor communis digitorum, with redness at the lower part of the nail;
for twenty minutes, it passes off in the open air. Toothache on the right
side, at one o’clock. Water in the eye, worse in the open air, ending
with itching, for ten minutes. Heat in the corner of the left nostril,
and stitch at the tip of the nose, for fifteen minutes. Pain at the
forehead, with beating in the left side, for ten minutes. 75. Merry, she
laughs about every thing. Desire to vomit after dinner, when inclining
her head forward. Difficult digestion, weight on the stomach. Salt,
thick and difficult sputa. Pains for five minutes, from the shoulder
to the middle of the back, with lancinations hindering breathing. 80.
Pain passing quickly through the right side of the head, from the top of
the left parietal bone to the eyebrow. Desire for tea. Lancinations in
the ears. Pain at the cardia as if cut with a penknife, short-lasting.
Thirst, dry mouth. 85. No sleep at night, the whole body feels tired as
in the third night.

_Seventh day._—Pain in the left lung, striking through the back, and
worse when carrying any thing heavy; for twelve hours. Stitch in the left
side; when drawing breath, the pain is felt like a cut with a knife, and,
after a short interval, coalesces with the former pain; three times.
Urine clear, white and not very thick. Sense as of a string at the right
breast, painless. 90. Pain in the teeth of the left lower jaw, striking
to the ear, and rendering her deaf for three minutes. She feels as if a
string were pulled from the shoulder to the ear. Toothache, the teeth
are soft and on edge, all day; every day since she took the drug, not
at night. Violent drawing pain from the shoulder to the ear, hindering
the motion of the head for three minutes. Shuddering, with paleness, and
margins around the eyes. 95. The fever abates by covering herself and
exciting a profuse perspiration; it is succeeded by malaise.

_Eighth day._—Cough at night, light sleep. Sad dreams, with fear on
waking, for a quarter of an hour. Itching at the tongue, like prickings,
for five minutes. Itching at the nipples, swelling of the glands,
hardness of the breasts; the itching does not last long. 100. Pain at the
pit of the stomach, which strikes to the left breast and shifts about;
stitch in both places at the same time. Itching under the chin, from
ear to ear; proceeding from the throat. Dry hacking cough which causes
a desire to spit, and, after repeated efforts, produces a salt saliva.
Pain in the left lower jaw, extending to the shoulder, for five minutes.
Pain as if a penknife were thrust in, with itching at the biceps muscle.
105. Pricking at the temple with itching, which spreads all over, all
day. Pain at the shoulder-blade as if a pin were stuck through the bone,
for three minutes. Pain in the middle-finger, while running, the finger
remained stretched for some minutes. Pain from the left hip to the knee,
with weakness of the leg which abates when sitting down. Pain and beating
in the left jaw, for ten minutes. 110. Vertigo and desire to vomit in the
evening. Cough with hoarse voice.


SECOND PROVING.

_First day._—Heavy sleep, with numbness on waking; sensation as if the
whole body were bruised. Drawing pain from the throat to the arm; her
tongue is thick as if very much swollen.

_Second day._—The left arm is very numb, pain in the left shoulder, as if
beaten by hammers. 115. Stitching pain at the pit of the stomach, after
eating. Crampy pain in the right hand, followed by shuddering all over.

_Third day._—No sleep until midnight. At seven in the morning, itching
at the corner of the right lip. Nose swollen on the left side, with
pain, which is less in the open air and worse when the parts are touched.
120. Painless lachrymation. Itching on the back of the hands. Weariness.
Desire to vomit, worse after half an hour; passes off by stirring
about. Pain in the pit of the stomach as from a band cutting the body
in two, for half an hour. 125. Pain at the bend of the knee, as if a
tendon were slowly drawn inwards. Buzzing in the left ear. Rheumatic
pain at the right shoulder-blade, for some minutes. Drowsy from noon
to three o’clock. Headache above the orbits and in the temples, worse
when raising the eyes or touching the parts. 130. Pain in the pectoralis
major, commencing under the axilla, and, in a few minutes, extending
to the heart. Worm-colic in the lower part of the abdomen, for five
minutes, with ineffectual effort to go to stool, and with tenesmus.
Frequent yawning. Pain at the right arm, like a blow with the hammer, and
numbness. Vertigo while steadying a basin with water, the head inclining
forward. 135. Pain in the right cheek, passing off by pressing on the
bony eminence. Compression as by a band around the waist, especially
at the epigastrium. Feeling of weakness in the stomach, with faint
feeling. Crampy pain in the right side of the neck, extending to various
parts of the shoulder and arm; relieved by pressure. Colic caused by
the damp air. 140. Coldness at the stomach, extending over the chest as
far as the throat. Pain with twitching of the muscles under the right
breast, extending and diminishing towards the axilla. Rheumatic pain and
stiffness of the left index-finger, which remains stretched for some
minutes. Contusive pain at the right hip, lessened by pressure. A cake
remains arrested in the œsophagus, after which it suddenly falls into
the stomach with a shaking sensation; the same symptom is experienced in
drinking. 145. Heat at the tip of the tongue as from spice, and sensation
as if the papillæ would expand and open. The abdominal functions are
regular. Dark urine. Stitching pain in the left axilla. Shuddering and
cold sweat in the air. 150. Violent coryza, inflammation, itching at the
nose. The limbs feel bruised. Desire for cressis, with loathing when
seeing it. Contraction of the leg, with stiffness of the bend of the knee.

_Fourth day._—Sensation as if a knife were plunged into the epigastrium
from without inwards. 155. Dry cough, with loss of breath. Violent
shock across the middle of the back. Throbbing in the head, from within
outwards, causing her to incline the head forwards. She imagines she is
abandoned in a church-yard, pursued by a phantom, and cries though nobody
hears her, with loss of voice next morning. Lancination from the ear to
the shoulder. 160. Beating in the forehead, causing her to incline her
head forward, not long. Sensation like a blow at the left big toe. Merry
after the sadness of the previous days (curative effects). Desire for
fruit and loathing of food.

_Fifth day._—Bleeding from the right nostril, the blood is black and
coagulated, with itching. 165. Pain in the right eye as from some round
weight, resting upon it, with itching in the inner canthus. Pain in the
shoulder extending around the neck like a band, with stitch in the pit of
the stomach and nape of the neck. Pricking and pressing pain around the
head. Crampy pain in the left hand. The nose bleed continues until one
o’clock, when it becomes violent, with red and bright blood.

_Sixth day._—170. Deep sleep. Pain as if a penknife were stuck along the
jaw, short-lasting. Crampy pain behind the neck, for five minutes. Short
pain from the temple to the chin, as if the face were cut with a razor.
Beating in the pit of the stomach, with pricking, worse when drawing
breath, not long. 175. Pain from the left ear to the lower part of the
neck, along the course of the carotid, worse when inclining the head
toward the right. The left ear feels as if stopped up, she does not hear
any thing with it. Loathing of meat.

_Seventh day._—Pain in the back as from a nail, extending to the
intra-scapular region. Pain in the right side arresting the breathing.
180. Shuddering all over as when the fever commences. Heat after the
cold, especially in the renal region. Constrictive pain at the heart,
extending to the left axilla. Desire to vomit, for half an hour.
Pricking at the tip of the middle-finger, drawing it up, so that she is
unable to stretch it.


THIRD PROVING.

_First day._—185. Very drowsy, shuddering in the legs as before an
attack of fever, very short. At 8, stitch in the left side, disappearing
of itself. At 11, tightness in the forehead as if pressed upon, for 15
minutes. Constant physical and moral torpor. Constant dull pain in the
head. 190. Frequent yawning. Desire to vomit before eating. Violent
headache at 4 in the afternoon. Dull pain in the abdomen, especially on
the right side, not aggravated by pressure. Headache with heat at the
forepart of the vertex. 195. Absence of ideas; inability to think, with
indifference for every thing. Comatose condition without being able to
sleep. Weight at the eyelids, with desire to close them. The outer air
feels very fresh. Pricking in the left side of the face. 200. Thirst.
Desire for coffee. Internal heat, and restlessness after lying down,
she has to get up again. Pulling at the forehead and at the root of the
nose. Heat in the stomach, with feeling of dryness and irritation. 205.
Throbbing in the back, which seems to proceed from the aorta. Aversion
to milk. Desire to walk about. Passing heat in the back, followed by a
general shuddering.

_Second day._—No sleep at night, general restlessness followed by
prickings all over, all night. 210. Eyelids weary, she raises them with
difficulty all night. At 4, pains in the abdomen, on the right side, the
same as the night previous.

_Third day._—The same restlessness, as the night before, followed by
sleeplessness. Pain in the left arm, she is scarcely able to raise it,
not long. Sickness at the stomach, followed by a desire to vomit, before
a meal. 215. Lancinations in the right eye, without redness, for three
hours.

_Fourth day._—Sickness at the stomach before eating. Weariness in the
legs for three hours. Heat in the back, not long, followed by shuddering.


FOURTH PROVING.

_Second day._—At 10 in the morning, pain all along the trunk, from above
downwards. 220. Pulling in the course of the left sartorius muscle. At
2, pain in the left gluteus maximus, as if contracted and twisted. At 6,
pain as if cut with a penknife, under the left axilla.

_Third day._—Laming pain at the left arm, when holding it still for a
time. Dreams about dead bodies, at night.

_Fourth day._—225. At 11, distress at the pit of the stomach, with desire
to vomit. Physical and moral prostration, loss of appetite, loathing
of food. At 2, heat in the head, with cold sweat and a little fever.
Constant desire to gape. At 6, heat in the head, no sweat. 230. Diarrhœa.
At 8 in the evening, violent colic, less when sitting, flatulence from
the bowels. Sour eructations.

_Fifth day._—At 7 in the morning, the abdomen feels sensitive as if sore.
Sensitiveness of the hairy scalp. 235. Short breathing. The abdomen feels
better. At 11, burning in the eyes. At 12, quick beating on the right
shoulder, as with a little hammer, for a minute. At 2, stitch in the
abdomen, on the left side. 240. From 4 to 7, faint feeling in the stomach.

_Sixth day._—At half past 6, pain in the gluteus maximus, for one hour.

_Seventh day._—At 3, palpitation of the heart. At night, while lying,
suffocative fit. Foul eructations all day. 245. Nightly pain in the whole
abdomen. At 5, buzzing in the right ear, for two minutes.


FIFTH PROVING.

_First day._—Violent lancinations in the right side of the chest for a
few minutes, below the third rib, every few moments. Acute pain at the
inner side of the right tibia.

_Second day._—Heaviness of the body. 250. Drowsy all day. Bad night,
nervous restlessness. Pains in the left brain, spreading from above the
left eye (which experiences a contractive sensation) to the vertex, the
back part of the head, and lastly to the nape of the neck where they
remain seated for a time. The pains seem to be seated in the cerebral
membranes, and succeed each other, never appear simultaneously. Sharp
stitching pain, in the region of the heart, with lancinations under
the false ribs. Violent headache, as if a hammer were beating inside
and as if the brain were bounding in an empty space, for half an hour.
255. Sharp pain in the right lower jaw-bone, all the teeth being sound.
Palpitation of the heart.

_Third day._—Night less restless. Sleeps all the time. Heaviness of the
head, with an undefined feeling of malaise in the brain, especially on
the left side. 260. Painful sensation at the right zygoma, for a short
time.

_Fourth day._—On waking, acute pains in the head and posterior cervical
muscles. Intense lancinating pains in the muscles of the right hand, and
its phalangeal articulations. Two hours, similar sensations in the right
shoulder-blade, accompanied by pains in the right wrist, all these pains
are well marked, but short.

_Fifth day._—Restless night, without any apparent cause; no sleep.

_Sixth day._—265. Prickling in the eyes, in the evening, as from some
astringent body. Eyeball and lids congested. Lancinations in the right
shoulder-blade.

_Seventh day._—Continual redness and pain in the eyes. Lancinating pains
above the eyes and in the temples.

_Eighth day._—270. Eyes still red, but less; no prickling.

_Ninth day._—Eyes well.

_Thirteenth day._—Acute and repeated pains in the cervical muscles, and
those of the left shoulder-blade. Violent headache in the morning, which
lasts until 2 o’clock.

_Fourteenth day._—Heavy and drowsy.

_Fifteenth day._—275. Recurrence of the pains in the neck and
shoulder-blade, in the morning. Heavy and drowsy; unable to apply himself
to a serious work; at 3, continued his work with ease.

_Sixteenth day._—Acute pains in the muscles of the neck and
shoulder-blade. Violent headache, in the evening, with sense of
compression in the forehead; from temple to temple. Dry mouth and throat.

_Seventeenth to nineteenth day._—280. Violent headache, all day, from
ten every morning until night. Violent palpitation of the heart. Violent
pains in the muscles of the neck, thigh and left leg, frequently
recurring, but short. (Rising of air in the evening, without acidity).

_Twentieth day._—No headache. Same symptoms as on the preceding days, in
the muscles of the left side. 285. Passing palpitations. Eructations.
Loathing of food, especially meat. Pains in the maxillary bones, as if
all the teeth were affected.

_Twenty-first day._—Lancination above the left eye and in the left
temple. 290. Lancinations in the left jaw-bone. No appetite, loathing of
meat.

_Twenty-second and -third day._—No appetite. Pains in the left side of
the head. 295. Palpitations of the heart.

_Twenty-fourth day._—The stomach feels better. Slight darlings in the
head, always on the left side.

_Twenty-fifth day._—The appetite returns.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

MENTAL AND MORAL: 1. She imagined the floor was sinking under her.
Inability to think. She imagines she is pursued by a phantom in a
church-yard, cries, with loss of voice next morning. Vertigo, with desire
to vomit. 5. Vertigo when stooping slightly. Sad and quarrelsome.

HEAD: Painful pressure on the head. Headache, with heat at front-part of
vertex. Headache above the orbits and in the temples. 10. Constrictive
pain in the head. Headache, with sense of compression in forehead.
Beating headache, as if the brain were bounding. Pains in the left brain,
spreading to the occiput and nape of the neck. Boring pain in the vertex.
15. Pricking and pressing pain round the head. Throbbing in the head,
causing one to bend it forward. Pricking at the temple, and itching all
over. Tightness of the forehead. Pulling at the forehead and root of the
nose. 20. Lancinations in left side of the head. Heaviness of the head,
with indescribable malaise in the brain, especially the left. Heat in the
head, with cold sweat and fever. Sensitiveness of the hairy scalp.

FACE, EYES, EARS: Pain in the right cheek, passing off by pressing on the
bone. 25. Pricking in left side of the face. Cutting pain from the temple
to the chin, across the face. Heat in left side of the face. Heat in the
corner of the left nostril, with stitch in the tip. Nose swollen and
painful on the left side. 30. Coryza, inflammation, itching of the nose.
Discharge of black blood from the right nostril. Heat in the nose, with
sensation as of a current of cold air in left nasal fossa. Buzzing in
the right ear. Beating pain above the left ear. 35. Itching in the right
ear, worse when stooping. Dartings in the ears. Buzzing in left ear.
Pricking pain round the right ear. Prickling in the eyes. 40. Burning in
the eyes. Eyelids weary at night. Redness and pains of the eyes. Dartings
in the right eye. Dimness of sight as if looking through a white gauze.
45. Lachrymation, with itching. Pain in right eye as from a round weight
resting upon it.

TEETH, JAWS: Sticking pain in the jaw. Painful beating in the left jaw.
Lancinations in the left jaw. 50. Pains in the jaws, as if in the teeth.
Pain in the lower teeth, with deafness. Toothache, as if soft and on
edge. Stitching pain in the lower gums. Itching under the chin, from ear
to ear.

MOUTH, THROAT: 55. Pricking itching at the tongue. Drawing pain from the
tongue to the arm, with sensation as if the tongue were swollen. Smarting
at the tip of the tongue. Dry mouth and throat. Heat in the throat with
desire to vomit and noise in the ears on swallowing.

GASTRIC: 60. Aversion to meat. Desire for tea. Desire for fruit, with
loathing of food. Desire for cressis, with loathing when seeing it.
Desire for chocolate and salad, vinegar. 65. Desire for coffee. Desire to
vomit. Sour eructations. Foul eructations. Prostration with loathing of
food. 70. Loathing of food. A cake descends into the stomach suddenly,
with a shaking sensation. Oppression after eating.

STOMACH, BOWELS: Faint feeling in stomach. Distress in pit of stomach,
with desire to vomit. 75. Heat in stomach, with feeling of dryness.
Sickness at the stomach, followed by a desire to vomit, before eating.
Pain at the pit of the stomach, after eating. Stitching pain in the pit
of the stomach after eating. Weak feeling in the stomach. 80. Pain in
the pit of the stomach, as if cut through. Beating and pricking in the
pit of the stomach. Throbbing at the epigastrium. The abdomen feels
sensitive. Cutting pain at the cardia. 85. Lancinations in the abdomen
and sides. Worm-colic, with tenesmus. Compression as by a band round the
waist. Colic in damp air. Sense as of a knife being plunged into the
epigastrium. 90. Colic. Stitch in left side of abdomen.

STOOL, URINARY, &c.: Diarrhœa. Weight and pressure at the bladder when
urinating. Dark urine.

BRONCHIAL: 95. Dry cough, with loss of breath. Cough with hoarseness.
Hacking cough, with salt saliva. Cough with slight spitting of blood.
Salt, thick sputa. 100. Stitch in the right lung. Pain in the right
side, arresting the breathing. Twitching pain in the muscles under the
right breast. Coldness from the stomach to the throat. Pain in the
pectoralis major. 105. Sense as of a string at the right breast. Pain
in the left lung, through to the back. Itching at the nipples, swelling
of the glands, hardness of the breasts. Sensation as of a band in the
side. Pricklings between the breasts. 110. Pain all along the trunk.
Lancinations in the right chest. Shortness of breath. Palpitation of the
heart, with pain hindering breathing. Convulsive trembling of the heart.
115. Sense as of a knife slowly penetrating into the heart. Constrictive
pain at the heart, extending to the left axilla. Palpitation of the
heart. Sharp stitching pain in the region of the heart, with lancinations
under the false ribs.

BACK: Acute pains in the muscles of the neck and shoulder-blade. 120.
Pricklings from the shoulder-blade along the right side of the neck.
Sensation as if a string were pulled from the shoulder to the ear. Crampy
pain in right side of the neck, extending to the arm. Darting from the
ear to the shoulder. Pain from the shoulder round the neck, like a band,
with a stitch in the pit of the stomach and nape of the neck. 125.
Crampy pain behind the neck. Pain in the side of the neck, worse when
turning the head to the right side. Throbbing in the back. Passing heat
in the back, followed by shuddering all over. Darting in the spine of
the shoulder-blade, shifting to the other shoulder. 130. Pains from the
shoulder to the back, with lancinations hindering breathing. Sticking
pain at the shoulder-blade. Shock across the back. Pain in the back as
from a nail.

UPPER EXTREMITIES: Stitching pain in the left axilla. 135. Formication
above the left shoulder. Pain under the left axilla, as if cut with a
penknife. Quick throbbing on the right shoulder. Violent pain in left
arm, worse when covered; she cannot stretch it. Pain as from a blow at
the right arm, with numbness. 140. Numbness of the left arm, with pain
in the shoulder as if beaten by hammers. Darting from the elbow to the
shoulder-blade. Pain in left arm, she can scarcely raise it. Laming
pain at left arm, when holding it still. Crampy pain in left hand.
145. Itching on the back of the hands. Crampy pain in the right hand,
followed by shuddering all over. Lancinating pains in the muscles of the
right hand and shoulder-blades. Rheumatic pain and stiffness of left
index-finger. Crampy pain at the right ring-finger. 150. Pain in the bone
of the left thumb, with trembling when attempting to use it. Prickling at
the tip of the middle-finger, which draws it up.

LOWER EXTREMITIES: Contusive pain at the right hip. Pulling along the
left sartorius muscle. Pain in left gluteus maximus as if contracted.
155. Contraction of the leg, with stiffness of the bend of the knee.
Acute pain at inner side of right tibia. Pain from the left hip to the
knee, with weakness of the leg. Pain in the bend of the knee as if a
tendon were slowly drawn inwards. Pain as if scratched at the feet,
followed by heat. 160. Sense as of a blow at the left big toe.

SLEEP, &c.: Desire to gape. No sleep after midnight, with pains all
over when stirring. Comatose condition, but no sleep. Heavy sleep, with
numbness and sense as if bruised on waking. 165. Drowsy, and shuddering
in the legs. Restless at night, followed by prickings all over. Heavy and
drowsy. Restless night. Suffocative fit at night. 170. She dreams that
she is talking with dead persons. Sad dreams with fear on waking. Dreams
about dead bodies. Internal heat with restlessness; she has to rise. Heat
after the cold, especially in the renal region. 175. Shuddering and cold
sweat in the air. Violent pain in the muscles of the neck, thigh and left
leg. The limbs feel bruised.




PANACEA.


We regret to say that we lost the drawings and the notes which we had
collected about the tree called by the Brazilians “panacea” on account of
the many ailments for which they use it. It is called in Brazil, _azougue
dos pobres_ (mercury of the poor), _cabedula_, and _erva carneira._
This tree is exceedingly common in Brazil; knowing its name, foreign
homœopathists will find it perhaps easier to procure the plant.

_First day._—1. Heaviness in the forehead, worse when drowsy, at 10 in
the evening. Heat followed by considerable cold, at half past 10.

_Second day._—Bitter mouth, in the morning after rising, at 5. Pain at
the shoulder-blade by turning the head to the left side. 5. Nausea.
Spasmodic yawning arrested suddenly. Cramp from the index-finger to the
elbow. Violent headache, worse when inclining to the left side, at 6.
Pain at the forehead and temples. 10. Pain at the loins as if bruised, at
6. Globus hystericus at the pit of the stomach, she cannot lace herself.
Hunger, with loathing of food. Fainting turn. Pain from the right wrist
to the elbow. 15. Vertigo with increase of the headache, at 6. Heaviness
of the head. Drowsy. Tearing, from the chest to the throat, at 7. Pain
like a blow with a hammer, at the left shoulder. 20. Dizziness, she
inclines backwards as if she would fall, at half past 7 in the evening.
Pain at the navel as if cut by a penknife, all around the abdomen and
terminating in the loins. Heat at the tongue, with sensation as if little
drops of ice-water were upon it, at 9 in the morning. Pain at the temples
as if in a vice. Very drowsy at noon, with heaviness of the eyes. 25.
Cramps from the feet to the bends of the knees. Empty feeling in the
stomach, with desire to eat. Hunger causing a burning at the stomach. The
knees give way, at 4 in the evening. Desires to be alone. 30. Shuddering
in the open air, at 7 in the evening. She cannot kneel for any length of
time. Pain in the chest, rising upwards, with pulling. Pain above the
orbits as if a rusty saw were rapidly moved across the part. Sensation as
if the toe-nail were torn off. 35. Weariness as after a long journey, at
8 in the evening.

_Third day._—Numbness of the left hand, it cannot be stirred, at 6 in the
morning. Pain as if stabbed with a knife, in the sides and navel. Pain in
a decayed tooth, as if a penknife were thrust in, at 7 in the morning.
Aching pain at the vertex, with dizziness; this pain shifts to the left
eye, followed by sensation as if a rocket were rushing out of it, at
half past 7. 40. Sense of choking at 9 in the morning. Trembling of the
right hand. Dissatisfied with herself, every thing is unpleasant to her.
Headache which increases her dissatisfaction. Shuddering all over.


HAHNEMANN’S ARRANGEMENT.

HEAD, &c.: Vertigo. Dissatisfied with herself, more so when she has the
headache. Pain at the temples as if in a vice. Aching pain at the vertex
with dizziness, shifting to the left eye, with sensation as if a rocket
were rushing out of it. Heaviness in the forehead. Headache worse when
inclining the head to the left side. Sawing pain above the orbits. Pain
in a decayed tooth, as if a penknife were thrust in. Heat at the tongue,
with sensation as if little drops of ice-water were upon it. Sense of
choking.

GASTRIC, &c.: Hunger with burning at the stomach. Nausea. Hunger, with
loathing of food. Bitter mouth, after rising from bed. Globus hystericus
at the pit of the stomach. Empty feeling in the stomach. Pain in the
sides and navel as if stabbed with a knife. Cutting pain; from the navel
all around the abdomen. Pulling pain in the chest. Tearing from the chest
to the throat. Pain at the loins as if bruised.

EXTREMITIES: Pain at the shoulder-blade when turning the head to the left
side. Pain in the right forearm. Trembling of the right hand. Numbness of
the left hand. Cramp from the index-finger to the elbow. Cramps in the
legs. Sensation as if the toe-nails were torn off. Pain at left shoulder
as from a blow. Spasmodic yawning. Shuddering all over. Shuddering in the
open air. Heat followed by cold. Weariness. Fainting turn.




SOLANUM TUBEROSUM ÆGROTANS.

SOL. T. ÆG.—DISEASED POTATO.

[Illustration]


A description of the potato in a work destined for European
pharmaceutists and physicians, would be entirely useless; so well and so
universally known is this plant in Europe. However, since our work will
get into the hands of persons who are less familiar with the productions
of the European continent, we deem it advisable to subjoin a drawing and
a short description of this plant. The potato is a native of Chili; it
is an herbaceous plant, with a branchy stem about one or two feet high.
Its leaves are pinnatifid, with leaflets that are oval, entire, slightly
hairy on their lower surface and almost opposite. Smaller folioles
sometimes arise between the larger ones. The flowers constitute corymbs
either erect or inclined; calice in five parts; corol of a white violet
with five equal divisions; five stamens attached to the basis of the
corol; one style and stigma, fleshy berry with two chambers. The roots
develop tubercles of different sizes and called potatoes. The potato-rot
first reveals itself by brown spots irregularly distributed through
the interior of the tubercles; gradually these spots are transformed
into white points of a cottonny appearance which may be compared to
the cryptogamia termed byssus, and found on damp wood. From this point
a general process of decomposition sets in, and the potato exhales an
insupportable nauseous odor. In our provings we have made use of a potato
in an entire state of decomposition, without, however, being completely
rotten; there were brown portions intermingled with those byssus-shaped
parts described above.


HOMŒOPATHIC TREATMENT OF THE POTATO-ROT.

Human pathology is not the only field of the homœopathist. He should take
an interest in every species of suffering, and endeavor to restore the
harmony of the organic kingdom wherever it has been disturbed by some
accidental cause. Homœopathy is a vast, unitary science. The healing art
is one; there is no such thing as one healing art for man and another for
the animal, though it is on man that we should prove our drugs because he
is the complex of the various kingdoms of nature.

The question now occurs, how is the potato-rot to be treated? It is
evident that the great point is to _prevent_ the disease, and, for this
purpose, we must endeavor to remove the cause. _Principiis obsta_, has
ever been the fundamental rule of medical treatment.

In order to attain this end, we have deemed it necessary first to
ascertain the effects which the diseased potato would produce on a
healthy person and afterwards to find out what drugs produce similar
effects. We might have instituted our provings on the potato itself, and,
among a number of drugs, might have discovered the one that would produce
a disease similar to the rot. But this mode of investigation would have
been too long and uncertain, whereas the proving on the human body is
simple and direct, and is, we think, the true mode which Providence has
designed we should pursue even in regard to the potato-rot.

It is true, man cannot be assimilated to the myriads of organized
beings that surround us; man constitutes the highest link in the chain
of beings; he is the complex of the animal life on our globe, and the
most perfect type to which all inferior existences can be referred; he
is a microcosm containing all the wonders of the universe; he is the
responsible administrator of this earth. Man alone is able to produce a
true pathogenesis by revealing the most evanescent as well as the most
characteristic and most permanent symptoms, or lesions of sensation.
On plants and animals we can only perceive disordered functions,
disorganizations of tissues, or acute pains as manifested by gestures or
cries; but the truly dynamic action can only be properly perceived and
described by man.

The veterinary homœopathist does very well in selecting his remedy by
the human pathogenesis. Why should not the same mode be applicable to
vegetables? We have invited our fellow-beings to try it; we have not
only invited them to teach, and to cure, and to make themselves sick,
in order to discover the true means of healing; but we have encouraged
them to suffer themselves to be persecuted, and even imprisoned, as a
reward for their labors of love, we have said to them; whilst the world
is hesitating whether it should accept or reject the blessing offered by
Hahnemann, let us lose no time; there are other regions where the evil is
still triumphant, and where truth is not even known by name; let us expel
error from its last hiding-places. And we have never failed in meeting
corresponding souls that would hear us and follow us. And thus it is that
homœopathy, this physical reflex of the Christian redemption, combats
evil by itself, pursuing it from region to region until it shall have
been exterminated from the world.

Now let us describe the practical part of our proving.

From the first, frontal headaches, with pressure above the orbits, have
been observed with much regularity not only by the three provers whose
symptoms are published, but also by other provers who continued the
proving only for a few days.

Until the 20th day, these headaches were often accompanied by fever,
with chill, heat, sweat, shudderings followed by sore throat, cough and
greenish mucous expectoration.

The palpitation of the heart which occurs during the whole period of
the proving, and with particular violence at the end of the third
proving, appears to be represented in the case of the second prover by
violent muscular pulsations occurring in the same chronological order.
The hard, large-sized, fragmentary stools, and their painful expulsion
which sometimes caused a falling of the rectum; the frequent emission of
flatulence preceded or accompanied by colic, with sensitiveness of the
abdominal integuments in the case of the first prover, are very constant
symptoms of this drug; they were observed from the first and increased
until the last days of the proving.

We will likewise point to the general or partial weakness, which, in the
case of the third prover, were followed by violent pains in the loins.

The white coating of the tongue which was observed on the first day,
gradually limited itself to a yellow line along the middle. Among the
less general symptoms which were observed during the whole time of the
proving, we may note the want of appetite, the bitter taste of food,
the cutaneous eruptions, the swelling of the mucous membrane of the
palate, the thick urine, and lastly the pain in the groin or the right
ileo-femoral articulation.

In the emotive sphere the drug induced a great irritability. The dreams
about a change of form occurred very generally to the three provers. The
second prover had the same dreams on two successive nights.

After a careful comparison of the symptoms of the Solanum tuberosum
ægrotans with those of the other known remedies of our Materia Medica, we
have found them to agree with the symptoms of the following drugs which
we enumerate in the order of their importance:

     1. _Bryonia_;
     2. _Arsenicum_;
     3. _Plumbum_;
     4. _Nux-vomica_;
     5. _Sepia_;
     6. _Strontiana_;
     7. _Viola-tricolor_;
     8. _Squilla_;
     9. _Pulsatilla_;
    10. _Graphites_;
    11. _Alumina_;
    12. _Mercurius_;
    13. _Natrum-mur_;
    14. _Ignatia_;
    15. _Calcarea_.

We have no doubt that Bryonia and Arsenicum will prevent the rot; but, to
be frank, we believe that, in this case at least, the isopathic method
of treatment will prove more successful than the homœopathic. It is
well known that the mode of preparing our drugs for medicinal purposes,
modifies their action a good deal. This result is principally obtained by
rubbing them down with sugar of milk, which is not an inert substance as
Hahnemann believed, but is on the contrary endowed with the most useful
powers of action. The sugar of milk effects a preliminary digestion of
the drug, and, by imparting to it vital qualities, fits it for medicinal
purposes. Do we not know that certain animal products are preferable
to corresponding mineral substances? Is not the calcarea prepared from
the oyster-shell preferable to the chemically prepared carbonates and
phosphates of lime? Are not the poisons of serpents destined to occupy
the first rank among the polychrests?

To return to our subject, the medicinal preparation obtained from the
diseased potato is not the original poison as used by nature, but the
poison modified in consequence of its having been previously engrafted on
a living tubercle.

Our mode of inoculating either the isopathic or homœopathic preparation
is as follows. Before putting the potato in the ground we perforate it
with a big needle, and into this hole we insert a single globule of the
third attenuation.

This operation is simple and easy. It can be applied on a large scale and
we think that by its means the potato will be preserved for a long time
yet to the European continent.

First prover: _Van-Dyck_, 26 years old, of a sanguine nervous temperament
and a robust constitution.

_First day._—1. Painful stitch in the right side, a few moments after
taking the drug. Acidity and eructations, at 9 in the evening.

_Second day._—On waking, weight above the eyes and in the forehead, as
the morning after being intoxicated. Shuddering and sensation of cold
internally, at noon. 5. Scanty and difficult stool, in the shape of small
hard balls, in the evening.

_Third day._—He dreams that he is to dress and draw the body of a drowned
man; this body bounded up every moment and fell back either on his
clothes or on his drawing board. The mucous membrane of the palate seems
to detach itself here and there. Cross; he blames every thing, and cannot
bear that any thing near him should be disturbed.

_Fourth day._—Difficult stool in small red balls.

_Fifth day._—10. Stool as above.

_Sixth day._—Horrid colic, as if the bowels were violently twisted; 15
minutes after, hard and copious stool, followed by two almost liquid
stools (at night).

_Seventh day._—Copious and liquid diarrhœa, of a greenish yellow, in the
morning. Prickling around the eyelids; on their internal surface they are
red and congested. Tongue coated white. 15. White sordes on the teeth.
(Profuse lachrymation). Little appetite. Pulse rather agitated.

_Eighth day._—The median line of the abdomen from the sternum to the
hypogastrium is painful to the touch. 20. Thirst. Little appetite.
Sensation of warmth about the head, at 4 in the evening.

_Ninth day._—Dreams about magic, men being transformed into speaking
animals, changes at night, &c. Heat in the canal of the urethra, after
urinating. 25. The urine deposits a yellowish sediment. Small pimples on
the back, causing a violent itching. Sneezing in going up-stairs.

_Tenth day._—Heaviness on the eyes. Slight beating in the temples. 30.
Mounting of heat to the head from time to time.

_Eleventh day._—Pricking around the eyelids, on waking. Itching of the
back. Sweat on doing the least work. Heaviness of the head.

_Twelfth day._—35. Heaviness in the head which is at times very violent,
especially when raising the head again after stooping. Smarting and
prickling in the eyes. No stool for five days past.

_Thirteenth day._—Heaviness of the head, worse in the morning than
evening. Ordinary stool. 40. Difficult digestion. Sneezing after going
up-stairs. Likes to loiter about.

_Fourteenth day._—Heaviness of the head. Ordinary stool. 45. He would
like to go to bed, but is too lazy, at 10 in the evening. Pains in the
thighs, above the knee-pan.

_Fifteenth day._—(Lachrymation on waking). Slight heaviness of the head.
Greenish yellow coating on the tongue, along the middle. 50. White slime
on the teeth. Headache at noon. Lancinations in the region of the heart.
Chilliness with chattering of the teeth. Smarting at the eyes, in the
evening. 55. Not much appetite. Sneezing. Lips cracked, bleeding and
almost raw.

_Sixteenth day._—Smarting at the eyelids. Tongue slightly coated white.
60. White mucus on the teeth. Dreams about his daily business. Flatulence
and eructations. Agitated pulse. Sneezing at 4 in the afternoon. 65.
Smarting and prickling at the eyes.

_Seventeenth day._—Colic followed by two stools at 4 in the morning. The
right umbilical region is painful to contact.

_Eighteenth day._—Colic. Not much appetite. 70. Sneezing at 5 in the
evening.

_Nineteenth day._—Prickling in the throat, inducing cough. Dry cough.

_Twenty-third day._—Heaviness of the head on waking.

_Twenty-fourth day._—Headache aggravated by the smell of alcohol and
disappearing at 3 in the evening.

_Twenty-fifth day._—75. Colic on waking. Frequent emission of flatulence.
Pains between the shoulders (at 10 in the evening).

_Twenty-sixth day._—He dreams that his hands are cut in pieces. Tickling
in the throat causing a cough.

Second prover: _Charles Dieudonné Jolly_, 24 years old, nervous-sanguine
temperament, robust constitution.

_First day._—80. Pressure at the root of the nose. Dreams about religious
things.

_Second day._—Heaviness of the head, in the morning. The head and
especially the forehead, feel dull as during a catarrh, all the
afternoon. Colic after eating. 85. Sexual dream, followed by a dream
about women that are changed to animals.

_Third day._—Frequent emission of flatulence, in the morning. Tongue
slightly coated white, in the morning. Colic and twisting in the stomach
after eating. Salt taste in the throat. 90. Pressure in the forehead and
above the orbits.

_Fifth day._—Slight yellowish-white coating on the tongue, in the
morning. Heat in the face, at half past 4 in the afternoon. Pain as if
sprained at the right coxo-femoral articulation, posteriorly. Flow of
ideas, at 5. 95. Beating at the middle portion of the triceps brachialis,
at 8.

_Seventh day._—Wakes very early since the third day. Itching at the ball
of the thumb, at 9 in the evening.

_Eighth day._—Wakes very early. Thin yellowish coating on the tongue, in
the morning. 100. Prickling in the lumbar muscles, at 6 in the afternoon.

_Ninth day._—Stitch in the left ring-finger, at 7 in the morning. Stitch
and sharp pinching in the right groin, near the inguinal ring; this pain
was felt shortly after an ordinary stool, while raising one leg as if one
would mount three steps at once, at 11 in the morning. Beating in the
left thigh at 4 in the afternoon, while sitting. Drowsy at half past 7,
waking very early.

_Tenth day._—105. Beating under the right shoulder, at 9 in the evening.
Drowsy at 8 o’clock in the evening.

_Eleventh day._—Weight in the left testicle, the whole day, also in the
evening while sitting.

_Twelfth day._—Violent pulsations at the lower part of the vastus
internus muscle, in a demi-circle, for an hour and a half, in the morning.

_Thirteenth day._—Beating in the lumbar muscles at 4 in the afternoon.

_Fourteenth day._—110. Headache. Repeated sneezing, at half past 8 in the
evening.

_Fifteenth day._—Sense of weariness in the muscles of the right thigh,
after walking. Involuntary crowding of heterogenous ideas on one’s mind
while listening to a discourse or attending to some work; frequently
during the proving.

_Sixteenth day._—Tongue coated white, in the morning. 115. Contraction
and beating at the left superior eyelid, at 7 in the evening. Slight
colic and copious flatulence all night.

_Seventeenth day._—Restless sleep. Flatulence in the evening. Hard and
scanty stool.

_Eighteenth day._—120. He dreams that he will fall from a tower. Violent
beating of the heart in raising himself. Pricking in the right side of
the tongue, from noon until 3. Roughness in the throat, with thirst, in
the evening. Cough and yellowish mucous expectoration, at night.

_Nineteenth day._—125. He dreams that he is in danger of falling from
the roof of a house. Swelling of the mucous membrane of the internal
alveolar margin of the two incisores and the left canine tooth. Violent
frontal headache and coryza all day. Pain as if sprained at the right
scapulo-humeral articulation, after having rested on the elbow, in the
evening, in bed. Restless night.

_Twentieth day._—130. Confused dreams. Agitated pulse in the morning.
Coryza.

_Twenty-first day._—Confused dreams. Frontal headache. 135. Coryza.
Agitated pulse. Sweats all over, in the morning, in bed. Strong
pulsations at the perineum, loins and right ring-finger, at half past
4. Violent frontal headache at 5 in the afternoon, while walking. 140.
Large, hard, fragmentary stool. Urinates all the time during stool.

_Twenty-third day._—Strong pulsations in the vertebral region, in the
morning while lying. Whizzing in the left ear, at 5 in the evening.
Disposed to remember past journeys; flow of ideas about theories, &c.

_Twenty-fourth day._—145. Aching pain in the right hypogastric region,
towards the ring, after a long walk.

_Twenty-fifth day._—Reddish urine, with mucus floating in it.

Third prover: Mme _Al. J—_, 26 years old, of sanguine temperament, good
constitution.

_First day._—Tearing in the chest and throat, immediately.

_Second day._—Sexual dream. Dull colic in the hypogastric region, at
night.

_Third day._—150. Dream about witchcraft. Difficult digestion accompanied
by twisting in the stomach, after breakfast and dinner. Hard and knotty
stool; after stool, renewed urging, with smarting at the anus. Falling of
the rectum. Sense of contraction at the sphincter. 155. After stool, the
rectum alternately descends and returns again. The falling of the rectum
is accompanied by shuddering all over, for ten minutes.

_Fifth day._—Palpitation of the heart, at 11 in the evening, while lying.

_Sixth day._—Palpitation of the heart, at 7 in the morning. Colic at the
stomach, after eating, at 6 in the evening.

_Seventh day._—160. Tearing in the throat, at 8 in the morning. Tongue
coated white.

_Eighth day._—Restless sleep, she dreams that she is eating human flesh.
The least thing puts her out of humor. Palpitation of the heart, at noon.
165. Palpitation of the heart, at 11 in the evening, at three different
periods.

_Ninth day._—Thick tongue, at 2 in the morning.

_Eleventh day._—Restless sleep. Cold sweat at night, while lying.

_Twelfth day._—Sense of spraining in the ileo-femoral articulation,
causing a pain in the womb; while making a trifling exertion. 170.
Flatulence; sometimes is unable to expel them. Headache. Contraction
of the sphincter ani. Lancinating pain at the forehead, until 9 in the
evening. Twisting colic. 175. Stool always hard and difficult. Heat
at the anus, after stool. Weeping of the right eye, for some minutes.
Frequent urging to stool. Shuddering all over, every moment, at 9 in the
evening. 180. Eructations in the evening. Flatulence in the evening.
Quarrelsome mood.

_Thirteenth day._—No sleep. Heat all over, with sweat. 185. Agitated
pulse. She dreams that she is floating in a river and cannot get out.
Flushes of heat in the face, now and then, especially while eating. These
flushes are followed by chilliness. (Is unable to close her hand). 190.
Irregular pulse, at times feeble, at others strong. Frontal headache with
dulness, and disposition to incline forwards. Lazy. Weary all over, she
has to lie down, at noon. Little appetite. 195. Pressure at the chest.
Thirst. Shivering while drinking cold water, or washing her face with it.
Headache ceasing for a while and then recommencing again. Lancinations
with sensation as if the brain would fly to pieces, in going up-stairs.
200. Vivid redness on the right malar eminence. Small red pimples on
the cheeks. Shuddering now and then. Congestion of the sclerotica. Red
face at three in the evening. 205. Flush of heat all over, at half past
3. Sensation, while stooping as if the brain would bound in the skull.
Heat at the vertex, which spreads all over, at 4. Sensation in the left
hypochondrium as if a spring were rolled out. Sense of fainting, she
has to stand still. 210. Acute pain in the right pectoralis major when
drawing breath. Borborygmi. Twisting of the bowels, at half past 10.
Colic and shuddering. Dry cough in the evening. 215. Headache decreases
in the evening. Flatulence. Red and hot face. The skin of the face peels
slightly.

_Fourteenth day._—Heat at night, disturbing the sleep. 220. Sense of
weariness in the limbs, on waking. Dulness of the forehead. Tongue
coated white. In the morning, taste of raw potatoes. Menstrual blood
rose-colored, at 9 in the morning. 225. Borborygmi, in the morning. At
the least movement she feels as if a hollow body were turning rapidly
round in the chest, with a rattling noise; she then fancies she will
faint, at 8 in the morning. Frontal headache all day. Smarting and
painful sensation at the fifth dorsal vertebra, when the clothes rub
against the part. Little appetite. 230. Stiffness of the posterior
cervical muscles. Dark redness and warmth of the cheeks. Heat all over
in cold and damp weather. The menstrual flow is interrupted. Repeated
sneezing, followed by a slight cough, every evening at 5, from the tenth
day. 235. Smell of blood, as if nosebleed would take place, at 7 in the
morning.

_Fifteenth day._—Restless sleep. Last evening’s dinner does not sit well
on her stomach, with acidity at night. Doughy mouth, in the morning.
Weariness all over, when rising. 240. Drawing pain in the right lower
limb, posteriorly, from the gluteus maximus to the heel. The menstrual
flow is interrupted. When bending the knee, pulling pain in the posterior
and internal muscles of the thigh. Hypochondria. Sadness. 245. Every
thing is disagreeable to her, she would like to go far away. Small
pimples on the lower part of the neck and on the right knee, they are
very red at the base, with a white point in the centre; they disappear in
an hour. Sense of weight in the nape of the neck, at half past 11. The
head feels heavy, she can scarcely keep it erect. Pain as from weariness
in the back and the posterior muscles of the thighs and arms. 250.
Dulness of the head. Pain as if bruised, hindering her movements in bed.
Very hot hands. Slight nosebleed, at 11 in the morning. She walks with
difficulty, she fears, she will lose her muscular powers. 255. The pain
is worse in the day-time and less in the evening. The menstrual flow is
interrupted. The epidermis of the face peels off. Numerous small pimples
on the face. Desire to stretch.

_Sixteenth day._—260. No sleep; disturbed sleep. Oppression, owing to the
dinner of last evening not sitting well on her stomach, she has to rise
at 3 in the morning. Eructations followed by rumbling in the stomach,
ceasing after drinking a glass of water with sugar. Tongue coated white,
with a yellow line along the middle. (She would like to break every
thing, on account of not being able to understand a certain phrase). 265.
Doughy mouth, in the night. Alternate heat and shuddering, in the night.
(Has the taste of potatoes in the mouth, all night, from last evening’s
dinner). Beating in the left temple. Stiffness in the posterior cervical
muscles. 270. The sacrum is painful when touched or during a walk. After
eating, choking and difficulty of breathing, caused by dryness of the
mouth. Very fine pimples and intolerable itching at the labia majora.

_Seventeenth day._—Restless sleep. Is roused at 4 in the morning by
a stomach-ache with eructations, for an hour. 275. Headache during a
half-slumber. Heaviness at the vertex in the evening. Shuddering and
burning, in the evening, in bed. Palpitation of the heart, while lying
down. Ringing in the ears as if she would faint. 280. Acute stitch-like
pain in the left side, preventing her from turning about in bed. The hair
in the axilla sticks together.

_Eighteenth day._—Heaviness at the vertex. Disturbed sleep. Pain at the
stomach and redness of the face after breakfast.

_Nineteenth day._—285. Feels well all over. Prickings at the right
internal surface of the sternum.

_Twentieth day._—Sore throat; she is unable to swallow her saliva, in the
evening. Distressing pain in the lumbar region, she cannot keep herself
erect.

_Twenty-first day._—She feels as if a piece of flesh had grown out in
her throat. 290. Lancinating pain in the left iliac region, less in the
right. Good appetite. Is unable to walk erect. Complains a good deal
about her pain in the loins.

_Twenty-second day._—She is waked by a violent shrill cough which last
five hours. 295. The pains in the loins are worse when stooping. Acute
pain as if the sacrum were out of place. The pain in the loins causes
her to cry out; she walks bent forward, at 11. The least movement
causes her an acute pain in the sacro-lumbar articulation. Pain in the
posterior part of the right thigh as if a penknife were thrust in. 300.
Pain in the left gluteus muscle, accompanied by nausea. Sensation as if
something would become detached from the sacrum. She can neither remain
standing nor sitting. Pressure as from an iron bar at the sacro-lumbar
articulation, obliging her to lie down when she feels better. Formication
at the sacrum. 305. Cough as from obstruction of the pharynx.

_Twenty-third day._—Restless sleep. Acute lancinating pain above the
right breast, for two hours, in the morning. Pain as if sprained all
along the vertebral column, and extending down the posterior muscles
of the lower limbs to the heels. The face is dark red. 310. She walks
inclined forwards. Heaviness in the stomach, her dinner does not sit well
on her stomach, at 9 in the evening. Walking is hindered by the pain in
the lumbar vertebræ. Desire for coffee.

_Twenty-fourth day._—Her dinner hurts her all night. 315. Palpitation of
the heart, in the night, three different times. Colic with loud emission
of flatulence. Incoherent dreams. The pain in the loins is less. Twisting
pain through the uterus, at nine in the evening.

_Twenty-fifth day._—320. Itching wakes her at four in the morning. Dreams
about a witch, actors changing to yellow and black. Sense of spraining in
the right groin. Slight nosebleed, at six in the evening. Thick urine,
with appearance of white mucus some time after standing.

_Twenty-sixth day._—325. Dreams about fire, then a comedy. The urine
continues to show white flocks after standing.

_Twenty-seventh-day._—Slight nosebleed after supper. Violent itching at
the labia majora, at two.

_Twenty-ninth day._—Hard, difficult and large stool.

_Thirtieth day._—330. Dreams about a revolution, about a city being
destroyed by fire and the sword. Sour eructations exciting her cough.
Smarting and itching at the vulva, at two in the afternoon.

_Thirty-second day._—Canine hunger at dinner. Acidity, bitterness and
regurgitations after dinner, 335. Hard and large stool. Difficult,
fragmentary stool. Painful stool, making the tears rush to her eyes; the
sclerotica becomes red in consequence of the efforts she is obliged to
make. Soapy pale-yellow urine. Colic along the large gut, at nine in the
evening.

_Thirty-third day._—340. Pulling at the stomach, at two in the morning.
Mouth dry. Large, dry, hard, difficult stool. Stool breaking off after
one half is expelled. Pain and smarting at the rectum, caused by the
violent efforts required to expel the stool. 345. Not disposed to
work, at eight in the evening. Irresistible drowsiness. Turbid urine,
of a dingy-yellow, and covered with an oily pellicle. Dreams about
persecutions. Stitches during sleep as though needles were stuck in the
spinal marrow; this wakes her. 350. Starting during sleep. Dry mouth with
tearing sensation in the chest, at two in the morning. She rises in the
night, imagining that thieves are hidden behind the curtains, but she
dares not look behind and begs somebody else to do it.

_Thirty-fourth day._—Restless sleep. Anxiety on waking. 355. Cracked
tongue, in the morning. Violent palpitations and pulsations with
sensation as though the heart were turning about very briskly. The
flatulence presses on the uterus. Hard, dry, large stool, expelled with
difficulty, and causing the tears to rush to her eyes. Regurgitations and
eructations at three. 360. Noisy flatulence, at nine in the evening.

_Thirty-fifth day._—Light sleep. Hoarseness on waking. White-coated
tongue. Desire for liquor and oranges.

_Thirty-sixth day._—365. Dry cough day and night.

_Thirty-seventh day._—Dry cough on waking. Burning in the hand and all
over. Hard and tense pulse. Tongue white in the middle and red at the
tip. 370. Pain at the vertex. Sensation as of water splashing in the
head. The posterior cervical muscles are stiff. Scarlet-redness of the
cheeks. Headache aggravated by work. 375. In bed the sweat smells like
potatoes. Tongue very red. Burning hands, with somewhat uneasy pulse.

_Thirty-eighth day._—The breasts have been painful during the whole time
of the proving, the pain is worse when moving the arms, it then seems
to become seated at the external border of the pectoralis major. Feels
chilly all over, cannot get warm, at half past five in the evening. 380.
Scarlet-redness of the cheeks. After dinner, her clothes feel too tight.
Dry cough for six minutes, at half past ten in the evening. Her thoughts
dwell upon her future, which she imagines will be wretched.

_Fortieth day._—Dry cough, in the evening. 385. Dull colic in the lower
abdomen.

_Forty-first day._—Premature menses. Discharge of black coagulated blood.
For five days the menstrual blood has a very fetid smell, similar to
the smell of spoiled fish. Turbid urine of a dingy yellow, depositing a
copious whitish sediment.

_Forty-second day._—390. Burning thirst, as though her mouth were salt.
Twitching of the right lower limb. Sensitiveness of the hairy scalp and
of the roots of the hairs. Tearing at the vertex; she cannot bear the
least covering on her head.

_Forty-third day._—Hoarseness on rising which disappears immediately. The
same hoarseness in the evening, not long.

_Forty-fourth day._—395. Tearing sensation in the throat, with
accumulation of phlegm which it is difficult to get loose. Expectoration
consisting of yellowish lumps. The phlegm seems to cover the whole
anterior portion of the throat. The pain in the throat disappears after
talking and stirring about. Sensitiveness of the hairy scalp, every day;
she feels a pulling in it which does not allow her to bear the comb.
400. In the morning, raising of black coagulated blood. In the morning
she blows bloody mucus from the nose. Nosebleed every morning, from
forty-second to forty-fourth day. She dreams of battles, dead bodies and
an immense pool of blood.

_Forty-fifth day._—She dreams about green men, covered with moss and
living in the water; these men were changed to dogs.

_Forty-sixth day._—405. At dinner, the dishes taste to her bitter as gall.

_Forty-seventh day._—Sensation as of some obstacle in her throat which
she is unable to expel, followed by the expectoration of a small, hard,
yellowish-gray lump. The urine deposits less, though still turbid. When
attempting to sing, violent palpitations of the heart prevent her from
articulating the sound; her breathing is stopped, she feels as though she
would faint. (Her face is scarlet-red.)

_Fiftieth day._—410. Strong palpitations of the heart, with oppression,
and disposition to faint. She is on the point of fainting, a glass of
water brings her to.

_Fifty-first day._—Palpitation of the heart.

_Fifty-second day._—Heat on the malar eminences and forehead, when going
out to the open air. Palpitations of the heart, after supper. 415. The
palpitation was irregular, stopped for a moment, and then reappeared with
redoubled vigor. These palpitations are accompanied by oppressions, less
when lying down. Alternate subcutaneous pulsations or beatings above
the knee-pan, in the two legs. She does not wish to hear anything in
explanation and is out of humor. Red face, and congestion of blood to the
sclerotica.

_Fifty-third day._—420. Palpitation of the heart the whole day. It is
caused by the act of swallowing. The palpitation is instantaneous and
corresponds to the superior portions of the thorax. (Her lower limbs
tremble on account of the hunger.)


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

EMOTIVE SPHERE.—1. Quarrelsome, irritable mood. Dread of work.
Hypochondriac mood. She wants to enjoy a change of scenery, &c. She
fancies she is miserable, and dwells much on the future.

SENTIENT SPHERE.—5. Crowd of ideas. His attention is easily disturbed by
other things.

HEAD: Heat in the head, evening. Heaviness of the head; in the vertex;
on stooping and then raising the head again. Catarrhal dulness of the
head, especially the forehead. 10. Headache at noon; increased by the
smell of spirits. The head feels too heavy, she has to make an effort to
support it. Pressure above the eyes, on waking. In the forehead: violent
pain, all day; stitching pain; with dulness of the head, and disposition
to fall forwards. Slight beating in the temples. 15. Sensation as if the
hair would be torn out on the vertex.

EYES: Prickling about the lids, the surface of which is red. Spasmodic
contraction and twitching of the left upper lid. Burning in the lids.
Prickling and burning in the eyes. 20. Congestion of the conjunctiva.
Lachrymation on waking.

EARS: Ringing in the left ear.

NOSE: Repeated sneezing, followed by feeble cough. Nosebleed.

FACE: 25. Face hot and red. Mounting of heat to the face, now and then.
Upper lip bleeding, cracked.

TEETH: Swelling of the mucous membrane of the inner margin of the two
incisores. Teeth covered with white mucus.

MOUTH: 30. Dry mouth. Salt taste. Taste of raw potatoes. The mucous
membrane of the velum palati seems to become detached here and there.
Tongue swollen, cracked, early in the morning; coated white or
yellowish-white; or coated white, with red tip, or yellowish along the
median line. 35. Prickling in the right half of the tongue.

THROAT: Inflamed fauces, she is unable to swallow the saliva.

APPETITE: Canine hunger. Food tastes bitter as gall. Great desire for
liquor and oranges.

GASTRIC SYMPTOMS: 40. Eructations followed by rumbling in the stomach.
Sour eructations causing a cough. Acidity, bitterness, and gulping-up,
after eating. Cardialgia after breakfast, dinner, and supper.

STOMACH: Pain in the stomach, with red face, after breakfast. 45.
Spasmodic pains, griping-tearing at night.

ABDOMEN: Pains and working in the bowels, early in the morning.
Painfulness of the abdomen to contact along the median line. _In the
abdomen_: pain after eating; spasmodic pains, as though the bowels became
twisted together; dull pains in the hypogastric region, at night; pain
with chilliness; rumbling: the clothes cause a feeling of tightness.
Emission of flatulence, also with colic. 50. Pain, as if sprained, in the
right groin.

STOOL AND ANUS: Frequent urging to stool. Stool scanty, with straining,
passing off in small, black lumps; she has to strain until tears come;
hard, large, lumpy; with violent burning in the anus and rectum; hard and
large, followed by two liquid stools. Copious, greenish-yellow diarrhœic
stool. Constipation for five days. 55. Violent colic previous to stool.
Alternate protrusion and retraction of the rectum during stool, with
feeling of chilliness in the body.

URINARY ORGANS: Urine reddish, mingled with mucus. Thick urine;
it becomes covered with white mucus after standing; turbid, of a
dingy-yellow, with copious white sediment; turbid, dingy-yellow, covered
with an oily pellicle. Pain in the urethra, after urinating.

SEXUAL PARTS: 60. Weight in the right testicle, the whole day.
Suppression of the menses. Menses smelling of foul fish, mixed with black
coagula. Small pimples and intolerable itching of the labia. Spasmodic
pains striking through the uterus. 65. Burning and itching in the vagina.

WINDPIPE: In the windpipe: tearing, prickling, with cough; tearing, with
phlegm; sensation as of an obstacle, followed by cough and expectoration
of a lump of hard, yellowish-gray mucus. Hoarseness, on walking. Cough,
with expectoration of yellow mucus, at night. Dry cough, day and night.
70. Cough, as from stoppage in the pharynx. Expectoration of lumps of
black blood, early in the morning.

CHEST: Constriction and difficulty of breathing, caused by dryness of the
mouth. Oppression after supper. Tearing in the chest, also with dryness
of the mouth. 75. Sensation, on making the least motion, as though a
hollow body were moving about in the chest quickly and with a noise,
after which she fancies she will faint, early in the morning. Prickling
as from a thousand pins, on the inner surface of the sternum. Violent
stitching pain above the right breast. The mammæ are painful, especially
when raising the arm. Congestions to the chest. 80. Acute pain in the
left side, like a stitch. Painful stitches in the right side. Palpitation
of the heart, for moments; at night; when lying; when raising one’s-self;
as though the heart would turn; with fainting feeling; with oppression of
the chest (less when lying); irregular (after eating).

BACK: Violent beating in the spine, early, when lying. Prickling
sensation in the spine, during sleep, waking her. 85. Stinging pain in
the large dorsal muscle, right side, when drawing breath. Burning and
painful sensation on the fifth dorsal vertebra, caused by the friction
of the clothes. Sensation of weariness in the whole back. Stiffness in
the muscles of the back. Sense of weight in the back part of the neck.
90. Sensation as if something on the os-sacrum became detached. Pain at
the sacrum, when walking or touching the part. Tingling at the os-sacrum.
Beating in right shoulder. Prickling in the psoas-muscles. 95. Violent
beating in the loins. Pain in the lumbar vertebræ, impeding walking.
Intolerable pain in the lumbar region, obliging her to walk bent.

UPPER EXTREMITIES: Feeling of weariness in the muscles, posteriorly.
Pain as if sprained, in the right upper arm, after leaning on the elbow.
100. Beating in the middle portion of the triceps brachealis. Heat in
the hands. Stinging in the left little finger. Beating in the right
ring-finger.

LOWER EXTREMITIES: Acute pains in the hip-joint, caused by the least
motion. 105. Painful pressure on the hip-joint, as with an iron bar,
compelling her to lie down. In the left gluteus muscle: beating; pain,
accompanied by loathing. Lancinations in the posterior part of the right
thigh. Weary feeling in the muscles of the right side, after walking.
Feeling of dislocation in the hip-joint, with pain in the womb, after a
slight exertion. 110. Shooting pain in the posterior and inferior femoral
muscles, when bending the knee. Beating in the internal femoral muscles.
Alternate heating and throbbing above the patella, in both limbs. Pain as
if sprained, in the whole of the vertebral column, striking through the
posterior parts of the thigh, and extending down to the heels. Drawing
pain in the posterior part of the right lower limb, from the gluteus
muscle down to the heel.

GENERAL SYMPTOMS: 115. General and partial debility. Debility, she
is about to faint. Weariness in all the limbs, on waking. Pain as if
bruised, in bed, preventing her from stirring. Cold water causes a sense
of oppression.

SKIN: 120. Small pimples on the back; causing a violent itching. Small
red pimples on the cheeks. The skin in the face peels off a little.

SLEEP: Irresistible drowsiness. Very sleepy in the evening. 125. Restless
sleep. Starting from sleep, as in affright. Sleepless. Confused dreams,
about fires, revolution, corpses, thieves, &c. Amorous dream. 130. He
dreams that he is to dress or draw the body of a drowned person, but is
prevented in consequence of the body falling all the time on the clothes
or paper. Dreams about men who become transformed to talking animals. He
dreams that his hands are cut to pieces. He dreams that he is falling
from a steeple. 135. She dreams that she is eating human flesh. She
dreams that she is swimming in a river, and that she cannot get out of it.

FEVER: Chilliness and sensation of internal coldness. Coldness, with
chattering of teeth. Repeated chilly creepings through the whole body,
in the evening. 140. Feeling of coldness all over, she is unable to
get warm, her cheeks being very red, in the afternoon. Heat all over,
with sweat. Violent paroxysms of heat, suddenly passing through the
whole body, and proceeding from the vertex. Alternate burning heat and
chilliness, at night, in bed. Exhalations from the skin, when performing
the least work. 145. Sweat all over, early in the morning, in bed. Cold
night-sweat. The sweat smells of potatoes, in bed. Pulse irritated;
irregular; hard and tense.




PLUMBAGO LITTORALIS (NOBIS).

P. LIT. PICAO DA PRAIA.

[Illustration]


This is a creeper, inhabiting the shores in the bay of Rio Janeiro. Its
stem is herbaceous, rounded, covered with short and rather stiff hairs.
Its leaves are simple, opposite, gradually tapering to a short channelled
petiole adhering to that of the opposite side, and forming tufts at
certain intervals whence arise adventitious roots. They have a smooth,
trapezoid, coarsely intended limb. The flowers form little axillary
heads, with from 15 to 20 flowers each, arising from an involucre with
five divisions and supported by a somewhat filiform pedicle. Calix
tubulous, monophyllous, with five teeth, and much shorter than the
tube of the corol. The corol is monopetalous, of a yellowish white,
tubulous, puffed up at its extremity, with five reflexed divisions, and
five stamens with bilocular, connivent anthers which are longer than
the corol. Ovary one-celled, flat at the top, whence proceeds a slender
style, terminated by a glandular stygma which is longer than the
stamens. Fruit monospermous, elongated, with a crustaceous integument
which is covered with a number of stiff hairs that are bent over, and
which presents irregular longitudinal furrows. The root is perennial and
ramose. We employ the leaves.

_First day._—1. Weakness of the joints of the lower extremities,
immediately. Vertigo. Slight pain in the right side of the neck, for five
minutes. Body and head are very warm. 5. Cold extremities. Violent sexual
desire at 11, disappearing afterwards during the remainder of the day.

_Second day._—Headache in the morning. Pain in the sides of the chest.
Weakness of the lower limbs. 10. Aversion to every thing. Taciturn.
Acute pain in the left ear, for some minutes. Hot face, with sickness at
the stomach. Passing pain in the left arm. 15. Passing pain in the left
lower limb, for ten minutes. Very drowsy after noon. Headache after a
walk. Acute pain in the left lower limb, in the evening. In the evening,
pain in the limbs. 20. Pain in the head. Internal heat. At night, very
hot internally. Pulse hard and small. Passing and lancinating pains in
various parts. 25. Lancinations in various parts of the head. Lancinating
pain in the kidneys; the parts were all painful as if pricked. Pain at
the right shoulder. Painful burning pricking at the right shoulder.
Catarrhal sore throat. 30. Frequent and scanty flow of saliva. Passing
pains at the neck. Constant pain in the head. Slight sense of heaviness
at the stomach. Sense of chilliness at every motion. 35. Vertigo for 3
or 4 minutes, after eating. Heat in the eyes. Sensitive smell all day.
Constant headache, especially in the forehead. Pain in the left lumbar
region. 40. Heaviness of the head, with vertigo. Drowsy after 9. No
stool, red urine.

_Third day._—Pain in the right lower limb, in the morning. Pain at the
neck. 45. Heaviness of the head and on the eyelids. Taciturn. Sad.
Extremely languid. Pricking in various parts of the thorax. 50. Unable
to lean on an arm, on account of the pain in the thorax. Pain in the
temples. Weak stomach. Painful palpitation of the heart. Heat in the
limbs. 55. Hot arms with cold hands. At 9 in the evening, hard and small
pulse, pain in the right lower limb, all day. Vertigo. Heaviness of the
head. Drowsy. 60. Heat in the eyes. Passing pains in various parts of
the trunk. Passing pain at the humerus. Constant pain at the right hip
and lower limb. Passing pains at the neck. 65. Sexual desire as above.
Headache. Internal heat, coming and going momentarily. Pain in the ribs
when bending forward; feeble pulse. Pain and constriction of the throat.
70. After a walk, heat in the head lasting all day. Pains here and there,
which seem to shift. Red urine. Excessive heat about the head.

_Fourth day._—Aversion to every thing, in the morning. 75. Pain in
the neck. Pain at the back. Headache. Heat in the face. Pain in the
stomach. 80. Pain at the heart. Pain in the chest when straining.
Pain at the humerus when lifting any thing. Slight headache above the
brows. Palpitation of the heart. 85. Agitated pulse. Ulceration of the
commissure of the lips. Constant pain in the iliac region. Milk-colored
spittle. Easy discharge of urine. 90. When drawing breath, pain below
the last false ribs, left side. The same pain on the right side, less
lasting. Stool hard, inodorous. Headache, at night. Pain, with difficult
breathing. 95. Little saliva. An old pain in the chest is worse.

_Fifth day._—Profuse saliva in the morning. Inflammation and lachrymation
of the left eye. Lips dry and cracked at the corners. 100. Heaviness at
the stomach. Extreme languor. Hot fever, vertigo, uneasy pulse. Acute
pains all over for three hours. Pain in the ribs and at the nape of the
neck, in the evening. 105. Violent pain in the eyes. Frontal headache.
Taciturn for some time. Painful stitch in the region of the heart.
Stomach-ache. 110. Pains in the joints hindering movement.

_Sixth day._—Stomach-ache. Pain in the back, while sitting. Languor
and general prostration. Profuse saliva. 115. Bitter mouth. Headache.
Pain here and there. The right lower limb is always painful. 120.
White-colored spittle.

_Seventh day._—Pain in the belly. Pain at the right shoulder. Frightful
dreams, about dead bodies. 125. Pain in the forehead. Heaviness in the
stomach.

_Eighth day._—Pain in the joints. Pain at the right ribs. Pain in the
forehead. 130. Slight pain at the right shoulder. Pain in the lower
limbs. Passing pains above the right ear.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

HEAD, &c.: 1. Vertigo after eating. Vertigo. Taciturn. Excessive heat
about the head. 5. Dartings in the head. Pain in the temples. Frontal
headache. Sensitive smell, all day. Acute pain in the left ear. 10. Heat
in the eyes. Inflammation and running of the left eye.

GASTRIC, &c.: Profuse saliva. Ulceration of the commissure of the lips.
Milky spittle. 15. Bitter mouth. Aversion to every thing. Painful
constriction of the throat. Sore throat. Heaviness at the stomach. 20.
Pain in the iliac region. Pain in the kidneys as if pricked. Pain below
the false ribs when drawing breath. Costiveness with red urine. Violent
sexual desire.

CHEST, &c.: 25. Pain at the right ribs. Prickings in the chest. Pain in
the chest, on which account he is unable to lean on the arm. Pain in
the sides of the chest. Painful stitch in the region of the heart. 30.
Pain at the heart. Palpitation of the heart. Passing pains at the neck.
Pain in the back. Pain at the right shoulder. 35. Pain at the humerus
when lifting any thing. Burning pricking at right shoulder. Weakness of
the joints of the lower limbs. Weakness of the lower limbs. Drowsy. 40.
Dreams about dead bodies. Hot arms with cold hands. Internal heat, coming
and going. Sense of chilliness when stirring. Heat in the limbs. 45. Very
hot, internally, at night. Pulse hard and small. Prostration. Darting
pains here and there. Acute pains all over, for three hours. 50. Pain in
the joints.




SOLANUM OLERACEUM. (VELLOZ.)

SOL. OL.—PORTUG.: GYQUIRIOBA, JUQUERIOBA.

[Illustration]


This is an herbaceous plant with a creeping and somewhat ligneous,
cylindrical stem, the upper branches being covered with short and
crooked thorns. The leaves, of a dark green, are alternate, irregularly
pennate; the folioles are long, lanceolate, almost sessile on a thorny
spike; there are from 7 to 9, those at the top being the largest. The
flowers are supported by ramose pedicles, which do not grow out of axils;
calice campanulate, with five divisions; corolla of a greenish white,
monopetalous, with five equal, rotaceous, somewhat reflexed divisions
alternating with those of the calix. Five stamens with erect, converging
and bilocular anthers; their filaments are short, with the exception of
one, which is longer than the rest. Ovary oval, surmounted by a filiform
style. Berry spherical with two compartments, of a dark green, with white
spots. This solanum grows on the shores around Rio Janeiro, in damp and
shady places. We employ the flower.

1. Scanty urine. Short-lasting menses. Toothache at night. Acute catarrh.
5. Suffocating cough. Pain in the face. Toothache. Pain and swelling
of the face and throat, with inflammation. No sleep for two nights. 10.
Stye on the right lower eyelid. Swelling of a cervical glands. Continual
redness of the face. Difficult digestion. Pain at the internal canthi
of the eyes. 15. Inflammation of the left upper eyelid. Tickling at
the lower limbs. Pustules all over, first white, then red, with an
intolerable itching now and then. Lancinating pain in the stomach not
lasting long. Sense of chilliness in the left side of the chest, after
drinking. 20. Violent pain in the left cheek, spreading over the whole
face. Discharge of fetid yellow mucus from the left nostril. Sadness.
Irritable. Drowsiness with headache. 25. Herpetic eruption at the ankle.
Nettle-rash fever. _Sore throat._ Itching. Ptyalism. 30. No appetite.
Tongue coated white. No sleep. Drowsy for four hours in the middle of
the day. Discharge of white mucus from the vagina. 35. Swelling of the
mammary glands with profuse effusion of milk, on the second day. Drowsy
all day. Shortly after taking the drug the breasts of a negro-woman of 60
years began to swell and discharged a quantity of milk.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

1. Sad. Irritable. Toothache. Pain in the face, also with swelling of the
face and throat, and inflammation. Redness of the face. 5. Pain in left
cheek, spreading over the face. Stye on right lower lid. Inflammation of
left lower lid. Pain at the inner canthi. Discharge of fetid yellow mucus
from left nostril. 10. Difficult digestion. No appetite. Tongue coated
white. Chilly feeling in left chest, after drinking. Sore throat. 15.
Ptyalism. Lancinating pain in the stomach. Scanty urine. Short-lasting
menses. Discharge of white mucus from the vagina. 20. Swelling of the
mammary glands, with discharge of milk. Tickling at the lower limbs. No
sleep. Drowsy with headache. Itching pustules all over, first white, then
red. Herpes at the ankle. Nettle-rash with fever.




PAULLINIA PINNATA.

PAUL.—PAULLINIA TIMBO (VELL).—PORTUG.: GUARATIMBO, TIMBO-SIPO, CURURU—APÉ.

[Illustration]


This beautiful liana is commonly found in the woods of Brazil; its stem,
of a flexible and tenacious wood, furnishes slender, slightly pubescent
branches with deep parallel furrows. The leaves are alternate, with
winged petioles; they are composed of five folioles which are almost
sessile, oval-lanceolate, crenulate, irregularly bizugate. The flowers
are small, in spikes, situated on axes that are accompanied by leaflets
arising from the axillæ of the leaves. Calix with five folioles, corolla
with four petals, alternating with the folioles of the calix; eight
stamens; ovary with three uni-ovulate chambers. Capsule pear-shaped and
sharp, divided at its superior part in three tubercles. Root with long
fasciculate branches which are a little hairy at their extremity. We
employ the fresh root.

_First day._—1. Loathing, tongue thick and doughy, in a few minutes. She
dreams about a leprous woman, which disgusts her.

_Second day._—Very chilly. Colic followed by a reddish diarrhœic stool
mixed with slime. 5. Headache as if the head were covered with a cap
of lead on which one strikes. Loathing of food. Desire for dainties.
Frequent and ineffectual desire to urinate. Pain of the soles in walking,
increased by pressure. 10. Lancinating pain in the heel.

_Third day._—Sensation in all the limbs as if bruised. Dizzy, her head
inclines forwards. The feet feel numb, after going up-stairs. The arms,
chest and head, except the ears, are very cold. 15. Desire to vomit. Her
tongue feels as if it were as thick as a finger. Burning when urinating.
She likes to remain quiet and shut up. Dreams about a leprous patient
whose sores bleed. 20. Her chest feels as if it would open, with a
cracking noise. Stitch under the right eye.

_Fourth day._—Shuddering on rising. Sharp pain during stool, as if a
penknife had been plunged into the abdomen. Prickling at the left eye,
which weeps and is very much inflamed. 25. Redness of the sclerotica.
Buzzing in the left ear for 15 minutes. Pain in the groin as if the
nerves were cut. Crampy pain in the left side of the hypogastrium.
Itching and tingling in the throat. 30. Pain at the eyebrows meeting from
opposite side at the root of the nose. Heat in the soles. Oppression and
burning in both sides of the chest. Pressure in the hypogastrium. Pain
as if a string had been strung round the hypochondria. 35. Intolerable
itching, with sense of burning in the chest. Beating in the temple
and above the left eye. Pain at the navel as from a penknife. Painful
sensation as from an iron bar, compelling the head to incline forwards.
Constant ennui. 40. Loathing at the sight of food. Desire for the taste
and smell of coffee. General lassitude.

_Fifth day._—Pain in the lower limbs, which become stiff by walking.
Cramp in the palm and fingers of the left hand, extending to the arm.
45. Violent pain in the side as if a stone were pressed in. Itching and
suppuration behind the head.

_Sixth day._—Hammering in the vertex, reverberating in the temples.
Restless sleep. She dreams that she wishes to open her chest in order to
look into it. 50. Pressure at the chest and sides, as if pressed upon by
iron sheeting, and then pierced with penknives, causing an acute pain.
Nausea. Lancinating pain in the left nipple, as if a penknife were thrust
in, at regular intervals. Sawing pain as if the cartilage of the left ear
were cut; this pain extends to the left side of the neck. Prickings as
from a thousand needles in the left thigh, high up, for several minutes.

_Seventh day._—55. Pressure as from an iron band around the waist; and
stitches in the upper part of the thorax, worse during motion. Crampy
pain in the left hand, for a moment. Sensation, while talking, as if a
stone were burying itself in the stomach. Pain as if a knife were plunged
into the right side.

_Eighth day._—She dreams that a scabby dog full of sores is walking
towards her; she took hold of the dog, who bit her; then she uttered loud
cries, in the midst of which she awoke with a severe pain in the chest.
60. She feels bruised all over. Headache as if her head would split.
Lachrymation, especially of the left eye. Very hungry at dinner. Stabbing
sensation in the ovaries, for a moment. 65. Painful stitches in each side
of the abdomen.

_Ninth day._—Burning in the chest. Pain at the right ankle, as if
sprained. Tingling in the throat. Pain in the loins as if bruised; she is
unable to raise herself after stooping. 70. Pain at the right shoulder,
disappearing by friction. Numbness in the shoulder. Intense itching under
the arm.


SECOND PROVING.

_First day._—Sense of scraping in the throat. Heat in the front part of
the chest. 75. Short breathing. Passing in the region of the liver. Acute
pain at the left wrist. Rumbling in the right hypochondrium. Pain in the
left hypochondrium. 80. Pain in the right parietal region, as if pressed
from within outwards. Internal trembling in the umbilical region and the
left hypochondrium. Pain in the whole abdomen, worse when touching it.
Pain at the heart, at 2 in the afternoon. Lancination in the præcordial
region. 85. Chilliness, first of the upper part of the body, and then
all over. Alternate heat and chilliness in the face. Dry mouth. Rough
tongue with sensation as if larger. Obnubilation. 90. Lancination, as
after chewing cloves; a constant symptom. Numbness of the arms. Trembling
of the lower limbs. In walking, she feels as though she were walking
backwards. Lazy, not disposed to work. 95. Desire to lie down. Rough
voice. Yellowish, bitter, difficult and tenacious expectoration. No
appetite. At 6, the pain at the heart extends to the last ribs. 100.
Acute pain in the middle of the head, on the right side. Headache, on
the left side. Out of breath, with desire to vomit. Pain above the eyes,
penetrating to the brain. Pain at the left breast. 105. Pain in the right
side of the chest, at half past 7 in the evening. Melancholy. Pain in the
right temple. Weakness and heaviness in the lower limbs. 110. Numbness in
the sole of the right foot and at the knee. Pain in the shoulder-blades.
Red spots in the face and on the chest. Shooting in the jaws. Sadness and
drowsiness all day.

_Second day._—115. Desire to vomit on waking. Pain at the left groin, at
8. Weak feeling in the chest. Pain in the left temple. Pain in the left
arm, extending to the back. 120. Pain in the middle of the head as if a
nail were thrust in. Itching in the hand and fingers, obliging one to
scratch until the skin is off. Deep ennui. Acute pain in the right side
of the chest, at 4 in the afternoon. 125. Pain in the left thigh. Pain in
the right teeth. Contusive pain in the region of the liver, in touching
the right ribs; worse when walking. Chilliness all over in the evening.
130. Pain near the right elbow; at 9 in the evening.

_Third day._—Acute lancinations under the right arm. Pain at the neck.
Lancinations in the left side. Heaviness of the head; with pain in the
right temple. 135. Heat in the face. Lancination under the right breast,
at one o’clock. Dull pain in the left ear, at 2. Lancinations in the
liver. Headache at night.

_Fourth day._—140. Pain in the whole abdomen. Extraordinary desire for
coffee and fruits. Constipation, for two days. Toothache continued. Pain
under the right arm. 145. Pain at the internal part of the right arm.
Lancinations in the right side of the chest, at 4 in the evening.

_Fifth day._—Dreams about dead persons. Vision of dead persons. Headache,
in the region of the right temple. 150. Pain from the arm to the chest,
at 8 in the morning. Heat in the chest, around the breast, which feels
as if pressed together by an iron band. Staggering gait. Bitter mouth.
Profuse saliva. 155. Shortness of breath. Pain in the left arm when
stretching it. Pain in the neck, less in the open air. Pain in the right
side of the chest, below the clavicle and the right axilla, at 6 in the
evening. No sleep.

_Sixth day._—160. Diarrhœa. Pain in the right side of the chest.
Rheumatic pain in the knees. Pain around the navel. Pain in the chest.
165. Headache all day. Desire to walk. Lancinations in the splenetic
region, at noon. Pain in the right shoulder, at one o’clock. Chilliness,
at 3. 170. Shuddering with drowsiness and arthritic pains. Lancinations
in the right side of the chest, at half past 3. Lancinations in the right
breast, at 6 in the evening. Heaviness of the head and forehead.

_Seventh day._—Short breathing. 175. Pain under the sternum. Pain in the
right wrist. Pain in the joints. Pain in the right ear. Blood-streaked
saliva. 180. Headache in the evening, with inability to stoop. Violent
cough, with inflamed throat. Fear of being phthysicky. Sad dreams.

_Eighth day._—When drawing breath, the chest feels as if opened. 185. Dry
and short cough.

_Ninth day._—Headache in the morning. Weariness of the lower limbs. Pain
in the left side of the chest, as far as the arm, as if the parts were
scratched.

_Tenth day._—Pain around the umbilicus. 190. Lancinations in the right
side of the chest. Lancinations in the right eye, with lachrymation. Heat
all along the back. A good appetite all day. Dreams about dead persons,
with tears on waking. 195. Dry and short cough.

_Eleventh day._—Oppression on the chest. Dry cough. Pain in the right
side of the chest. No appetite. 200. Ulceration at the lower limbs, with
itching.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

MENTAL AND MORAL: 1. She likes to be alone and quiet. Ennui. Melancholy.
Dizzy, her head inclines forward. 5. In walking she imagines she is
walking backwards. Staggering gait. Vision of dead persons.

HEAD: Headache in the evening, with inability to stoop. Heaviness of the
head, with pain in right temple. 10. Acute pain in middle of the head.
Pain in head as from a nail. Pressing pain from within outwards, in right
parietal region. Splitting headache. Beating in the temple and above
the left eye. 15. Pain as from an iron bar compelling the head to stoop
forward. Hammering in the vertex. Headache as if the head were covered
with a cap of lead on which one strikes.

EARS, EYES, &c.: Dull pain in left ear. Sawing pain in the cartilage of
the left ear, extending to the neck. 20. Buzzing in left ear. Alternate
heat and chilliness in the face. Shooting in the jaws. Pain in right
teeth. Darting in right eye, with lachrymation. 25. Pain above the eyes,
penetrating to the brain. Stitch under the right eye. Prickling in left
eye, which runs and is inflamed. Pain at the eyebrows, towards the root
of the nose.

GASTRIC: Rough tongue, with sensation as if larger. 30. Bitter mouth. Out
of breath, with desire to vomit. Loathing at the sight of food. Desire
for coffee. Desire to vomit. 35. Loathing, with tongue thick and doughy.
Desire for dainties. Itching and tingling in the throat. Scraping in the
throat. Yellowish, tenacious expectoration. 40. Sensation, while talking,
as if a stone were burying itself in the stomach.

ABDOMEN: Pain around the navel. Lancinations in the splenetic region.
Contusive pain in the region of the liver. Pain in the region of the
liver. 45. Pain in abdomen, worse when touched. Pain in right side, as if
a knife were plunged in. Painful stitches in each side of the abdomen.
Constrictive pain round the hypochondria. Cutting pain at navel. 50. Pain
in the side as if a stone were pressed in. Crampy pain in left side of
hypogastrium. Pain in the groin as if the nerves were cut. Colic followed
by a reddish diarrhœic stool. Constipation. 55. Diarrhœa. Sharp pain
during stool, as from a penknife. Ineffectual desire to urinate. Burning
when urinating. Stabbing sensation in the ovaries.

BRONCHIAL: 60. Blood-streaked saliva. Cough with inflamed throat.

CHEST: Her chest feels as if it would open, with cracking. Itching and
burning in the chest. Oppression and burning in the sides of the chest.
65. Burning in the chest. Lancing pain in left nipple. Pressure at the
chest and sides as from iron sheeting, followed by sensation as if
pierced by a penknife. Acute pain in the right side of the chest. Weak
feeling in the chest. 70. Pain at the right breast. Dartings in the right
breast. Pain under the sternum. Pain under the right clavicle. Shortness
of breath. 75. Heat around the breast which feels compressed. Dartings in
right side of chest. Scratching pain in left side of chest. When drawing
breath, the chest feels as if being opened. Pain at the heart. 80.
Lancination in the præcordial region.

BACK: Heat along the back. Pain in the neck. Pain in the shoulder-blades.

EXTREMITIES: Numbness in the shoulder. 85. Numbness of the arms. Itching
under the arm. Dartings under the right arm. Pain from the left arm to
the back. Cramp in the palm and fingers of the left hand. 90. Pain in
the lower limbs, which become stiff by walking. Prickings in left thigh,
high up. Trembling of the lower limbs. Numbness in right foot and knee.
Rheumatic pains in the knees. 95. Pain at right ankle as if sprained.
Lancing pain in the heel. Pain of the soles in walking. Heat in the
soles. The feet feel numb after going up-stairs.

FEVER, SLEEP: 100. Shuddering with drowsiness and arthritic pains.
Chilliness. Shuddering on rising. Chilly. Restless sleep. 105. She
dreams that a scabby dog is walking towards her; it bit her, and she
cried out. She dreams that she wishes to look into a chest. Dreams about
a leprous woman.

CUTANEOUS, GENERAL: Ulcers at the lower limbs, with itching. Red spots
in the face. 110. Itching and suppuration behind the head. Pain in the
joints. Distressing itching in the hand and fingers. Desire to lie down.
Bruised all over. 115. Lassitude. Sensation in the limbs as if bruised.




BLATTA AMERICANA (LAM.)

BLATTA.—KAKERLAT AMERICANA (SAR.) PORTUG.: BARATTA.

[Illustration]


The blatta americana, which is very common in Brazil, where it inhabits
human dwellings, is an orthopterous insect, with an elongated, oval,
rather flat body, from 12 to 16 lines in length, of a brown-red which
becomes paler under the belly. The prothorax is smooth, shining, of an
ochre yellow, with two large brown spots, which are sometimes united in
one. In the male the elytræ reach beyond the belly by a few lines; in
the female they are a little shorter. They are marked with numerous
longitudinal streaks which bifurcate near the dotted margin terminating
the elytræ. The wings are striate and reticular, of the length of the
elytræ. The antennæ which are longer than the body, exhibit at their base
a small yellowish point. The feet are provided with black prickles and
terminate in a tarsus with five articulations.

We triturate the whole insect, if possible alive, for 15 minutes; after
which we take two or three grains of this paste and rub them down with
100 grains of sugar of milk in order to obtain the first trituration.

_First day._—1. Aching pain in the temples. Numbness and heaviness of
the head. Formication in the toes, at 7 in the morning. Pain shifting
from the back to the shoulder-blade. 5. Prickings in the left side of
the neck. Heat in the urethra when urinating. Stitch as by a fly, in
the corner of the left eye, at 10 in the morning. Sense of weariness in
the bends of the knees. Yellowness of the face. 10. Yellowness of the
sclerotica. (When the prover had the jaundice, for which the blatta is
considered empirically as a specific, he felt a number of pains which
have been reproduced in this proving, such as general prostration,
weariness, &c.) Frequent yawning, watery discharge from the nose.
Lachrymation. Passing bloating at the pit of the stomach. 15. Drowsy in
the afternoon. Acute pains in the temples, every now and then, at 4 in
the afternoon. Chill and shuddering for half an hour. Pain at the right
leg, from the toes to the knees. Slight colic. 20. Pain in the back,
right side. Shuddering; sense of heat and slight moisture all over. Pain
in the transverse colon, duodenum and pit of the stomach. Pain at the
left little toe. Pain in the right side of the chest. 25. Shuddering for
one hour. The pain in the temples continues. Yellow color of the urine,
increasing more and more. Salt saliva.

_Second day._—Pain in the temple, with lancinations now and then. 30.
Sense of weariness in the bend of the knee. Pain in the feet, here and
there, and sometimes in the sole. Lazy. Frequent yawning. Acute pain
in the chest, afternoon. 35. Cramp in the right leg. Weary when going
up-stairs. Violent pain in the chest, with want of breath. Urine of a
bright-yellow, albuminous. The proving was interrupted by an accident.


HAHNEMANN’S ARRANGEMENT.

1. Aching in the temples. Numbness and heaviness in the head. Acute
pains in the temples. Pain in the temple, with lancinations now and
then. Stitch in canthus of left eye. Yellowness of the sclerotica.
Lachrymation. Bloating at the pit of the stomach. Pain in the transverse
colon. Heat in the urethra when urinating. Bright-yellow, albuminous
urine. Acute pain in the chest, afternoon, also with want of breath. Pain
shifting from the back to the shoulder-blade. Pricklings in the left side
of the neck. Formication in the toes. Sense of weariness in the bends
of the knees. Pain in the feet, here and there. Chill and shuddering.
Shuddering, with sense of heat and moisture all over. Weary when going
up-stairs.




DELPHINUS AMAZONICUS.

DELPH. DELPHINUS GEOFFROYI (DESM.) PORTUG.: PEIXE BOI.

[Illustration]


This dolphin is from 9 to 10 feet long; its body is large and
cylindrical, of a brownish-gray color above and a pure white below. Its
jaws, of equal length, are long, narrow, linear, armed on each side with
26 large conical, somewhat rugose teeth, with wide crowns. Its forehead
is bomb-shaped, the eyes a little above the commissure of the lips. The
pectoral fins are of considerable size, brownish at their extremities,
and placed very low; the dorsal fin is elevated and semilunar. This
dolphin, as its name shows, inhabits the mouth of the Amazon. It has a
thick and fibrous skin, which we employ in medicine.

(Before trying the drug, the prover had paroxysms of cough with
suffocation, during which a hernia protruded with much force.)

_First day._—1. Slight pain at the navel, after five minutes. Feeling of
a quantity of air in the stomach, with grumbling in the abdomen. Pain at
the loins, on rising in the morning. Eructations. 5. Violent smarting and
excoriating pains, shifting from the right thigh to the heel, then to
the right shoulder; these pains are aggravated by contact. In moving the
right toes, the bones cracked as if notched. Quickly passing pain at the
right eyebrow (when coughing, the hernia did not protrude any longer with
so much force.)

_Second day._—Doughy mouth. 10. He has not been troubled with
suffocation and the cough is less. Headache. Violent colic with soft and
strong-smelling stools. Pain in the loins. Hard abdomen, especially on
the right side, where he feels like a ball which is painful when touched,
in the evening. 15. Dry lips.

_Third day._—Restless and disturbed sleep. (Cough continues.) Pain in
the loins. The hardness in the abdomen has shifted to the left side. 20.
Bleeding from the left nostril. (Before taking the drug he bled from the
right nostril.)

_Fourth day._—Acid stomach. (Cough with suffocation.) Erections, with
sexual desire. Itching at the anus as from worms. 25. The bones of the
thorax are affected with rheumatic pains.




AMPHISBŒNA VERMICULARIS.

AMPH.

[Illustration]


This species moves either backwards or forwards, as occasion may require,
and is quite frequent in the woods of Brazil. Its body is cylindrical,
from two feet to two and a half long, terminated by a very obtuse
tail. It has no scales properly speaking, but its skin is divided into
quadrilateral compartments disposed in rings round the body; 228 on the
trunk and 26 on the tail. The lower lip is divided into six long and
narrow plates; the head is small, rather sharp, protected by scutellæ,
and not distinguished from the neck. It has small eyes; the jaw is
not dilatable, the teeth are conical, bent, unequal and distinct from
each other; the nostrils are on the sides, and pierced in a single
naso-rostral plate. The amphisbœna is of a brownish color above, and
a pinkish-white under the belly. The poison was taken from the living
animal by cutting off part of its jaw, which was triturated immediately.

1. Debility. Sadness and lassitude in the morning, which leaves one
while walking. Tender sadness which disposes one to be gentle and meek.
Violent pain in the whole of the vertebral column, worse when walking,
moving the arms or stooping. 5. Painful and large pimple on the left
side of the upper lip, suppurating. Acne rosacea miliaris (a dry itch
cured), covering extensive ellyptical spots; after the eruption healed, a
furfuraceous desquamation took place wherever a pimple had been situated.
Wakes at midnight, for ten consecutive nights. Disturbed sleep.

_Fifteenth day._—Depression. 10. Ennui. Impatience. Weight in the
forehead and parietal regions. Weight at the forehead. Vertigo as if one
would fall towards one side and is then impelled towards the opposite
side by a contrary oscillation. 15. Pain at the inner canthus of the
right eye as if a stye would form. Repeated beating at the right side
of the forehead as if hail-stones fell upon it. Sweat about the head.
Horrible headache, with sensation as if the feet were in the brain.
Dizziness when turning round. 20. Constant twitching at the upper
eyelids, especially the left. Constriction of the right eye as if strung
together with a cord. Shooting pain in the outer angle of the left eye.
Sensation as of a grain of sand in the right eye. Weariness of the
eyes, in the evening, with pain and pricking when looking at the light.
25. Lachrymation and constriction of the left eye. Pain in the meatus
auditorius, as if air were rushing in. Pricklings and heat at the right
malar eminence. Dull pain _in the right lower jaw-bone_. Lancination
and pain all through the right side of the head. 30. Pains in the right
lower jaw, and considerable swelling aggravated by air and dampness.
Swelling of the right lower jaw, worse in the open air. The teeth feel
elongated and set on edge, especially the right lower molares. The
toothache is worse in the evening and afternoon. Chewing is painful,
but the contact of liquids is not painful. 35. Swelling of the tonsils.
Deglutition is difficult, one is not able to swallow saliva. Protrusion
of umbilical hernia. Chilliness and pains at the epigastrium. Tearing
pain at the navel, all day. 40. Suppuration of inguinal hernia. The
hernia is painful, and air is felt in it. Lancination in the navel as
from a stiletto. Constipation. The miliary acne rosacea spreads over
the chest, neck and back, with itching which is worse in the morning and
decreases in the evening. 45. Gradually a white vesicle forms on every
pimple, discharging a clear serum, after which the eruption dries up on
the fifth day. Breaking out of little pimples, especially on the forearm.
Painful swelling of the arm, on the fifteenth day. Cramp in the left leg.
Painless drawing up of the legs. 50. Cramp in the left leg; it remains
behind in walking as if paralyzed.




ARISTOLOCHIA MILHOMENS. (NOBIS.)

ARIST. ARISTOLOCHIA GLANDIFLORA (GOM.)—ARISTOLOCHIA CYMBIFERA (MART.)
SNAKE-ROOT.

[Illustration]


A climbing plant with a glabrous stem; leaves alternate, uniformly
cordate, pedati-nerved, with reticulate little veins between the nerves;
they are supported by long petioles, furnished with a large, entire,
reni-form, amplexicaule stipule. Flowers solitary, upon a sulcate
peduncle from four to five inches long. Perianth single, large, of a
yellowish brown, tuberculated, curved, divided into two lips; the upper
lip sharp, lanceolate, and somewhat bent outwards; the lower lip, twice
as long as the other, at first dilated at the base, and expanding into a
large oval disk with undulate borders. The whole flower is covered with
prominent nerves. Stamens six epigynous. Ovary glabrous, surmounted by a
stygma with six short and rounded lobes.

We employ the flower.

_First day._—1. Restless sleep. He dreams that he is neither able to
work, drink or walk. Gurgling at the right frontal eminence, for one
minute. Doughy mouth the whole morning. 5. Thirst. Pain in the right
groin. Numbness of the left leg. Numbness of the lower part of the calf.
Borborygmi in the stomach and bowels. 10. Lancinations in the whole of
the left lower limb. The left leg is red and swollen. The head feels
heavy. Very thirsty, with bitter mouth. No appetite. 15. Stitch in the
ball of the left thumb, at half past three in the afternoon. Torpid
sensation at the vertex. Pricking in the right testicle. Pricking at the
right thigh. Pricking at the lower part of the left leg. 20. Itching
at the inside of the left thigh. Prickings here and there, over the
body. Pain at the ball of the right thumb, at 7 in the evening. Torpid
sensation in the cerebellum. Stitch under the heel. 25. Itching at the
left outer ankle, at 8. Itching at the skin of the prepuce. Crampy pain
at the right inner ankle. Contusive pain at the left pectoral muscle,
which is sensitive to contact, at night.

_Second day._—Restless sleep. 30. He dreams about a sheep and dog covered
with red scarfs; the first was lifted off the ground and seized by the
latter in the middle of the back; the dog was suspended by the back, by
some individual accompanied by a number of persons. Afterwards an intense
sexual dream with emission. Painful stitch under the shoulder-blade, as
after receiving a blow. Sense of embarrassment behind the left inner
ankle. Uneasiness in the thighs, followed by pricking, at 2 in the
afternoon. 35. Contusive pain at the left knee. Lancinations at the
forepart of the left outer ankle, at 7 in the evening. Fulness of the
stomach. Stitching pain at the right thigh. In the morning, the leg is
swollen and violet-colored; it becomes inflamed by walking, and, towards
evening, changes to a blackish red. 40. Loss of appetite. The whole leg
is covered with irregular blackish spots formed by extra-vasated blood.
Urinates more frequently than usual. Burning head. Continual thirst, with
bitter mouth. 45. The lips and gums are excoriated. Complete loss of
appetite. The left leg is painful as if excoriated; the pain shifts to
the right inner ankle, where it becomes more acute.

_Third day._—Lancinating pains at the apex of the heart, which arrests
the breathing all night. The temples are painful to contact, the whole
day. 50. Stiffness of the leg, with inability to stand for a few minutes.
Stitching pain between the shoulders. Dull pain at the lower part of the
lumbar region and at the abdomen. Burning pains at the anus. The lips and
gums are raw as before. 55. Itching above the bend of the right elbow.
Crampy pain in the left tendo-Achillis. Partial numbness around the
ankles. Contusive pain below the left knee-pan, at 3 in the afternoon.
Lancinations in the lower part of the right leg and at the inner ankle,
at half past 3. 60. The upper and lower part of the left arm is painful
to the touch, at half past 4. Painful lancinations at the inner part of
the left knee. Stitch in the articulation of the first phalanx of the
little finger, at 8 in the evening.

_Fourth day._—Pain at the dorsal part of the left index. Colic, followed
by stool the first part of which is soft, the latter diarrhœic, twice in
succession, in the morning. 65. Malaise as if something would accumulate
at the inside of the right leg, above the knee, in the evening and during
part of the night.

_Fifth day._—Difficulty of using the lumbar region. Sensation as if the
skin of the right leg would fall upon the ankles, like a stocking; he
frequently puts his hand there for the purpose of raising the skin again.
Itching at the forepart of the right leg. Pricking at the inside of the
right leg. 70. A difficulty at the lower part of the tendo-Achillis. Easy
stool.

_Sixth day._—Itching at the internal ankle of the left foot. Itching at
the left thigh. Pain above the right inner ankle. 75. Disgusting dreams.

_Seventh day._—Malaise after waking in the morning; he is unable to fall
asleep again; he feels as if something near the ankles inconvenienced
him for several hours. This pain increases towards three, changing
to a contusive pain. The ankles feel swollen. 80. Acute pain in the
sacro-lumbar region. Pain in the right side.

_Eighth day._—Pain at the pit of the stomach. The pain in the legs
continues. Permanent pain above the left inner ankle. 85. Smarting at the
inner and upper right thigh, in the evening. Acute lancination in the
head, evening.

_Ninth day._—Acute lancination in the left side of the head, evening.

_Tenth day._—Violent lancination behind the head. The forepart of the
left leg is painful to contact. 90. Shootings in the cerebellum.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

HEAD. Head heavy. The head is burning hot. Throbbing in the right frontal
eminence for a minute. Sensation of torpor at the vertex. 5. His temples
are very sensitive to touch during the whole day. Acute lancination
in the head. Acute lancination in the left side of the head. Severe
lancination behind the head. Shooting in the cerebellum. 10. Sensation of
torpor in the cerebellum.

MOUTH: Mouth pasty through the whole morning. Excoriations of the lips
and gums. Excoriations of the lips and gums as on the second day.

APPETITE: Anorexia. 15. Want of appetite. Complete anorexia. Thirst.
Great thirst with bitterness of the mouth. Continual thirst and bitter
mouth.

STOMACH: 20. Borborygmus in the stomach and intestines. Fulness of the
stomach. Pain at the scorbiculus.

STOOL AND ANUS: Colic, followed by a stool, at first soft, then
diarrhœic, twice in succession. Easy stool. 25. Burning pains at the
anus.

URINARY AND GENITAL: He makes water more frequently than usual. Itching
on the skin of the prepuce. Pricking in the right testicle.

CHEST: Lancinating pain at the apex of the heart which takes away his
breath at night. 30. Bruised pain over the left pectoral muscle, which is
sensitive to the touch at night.

BACK: Painful spot under the scapula, as if from having received a blow.
Sharp pain between the shoulders. Pain in the right side. Uneasiness in
the lumbar region. 35. Dull pain at the lower part of the lumbar region
and in the hypogastrium. Acute pain in the sacro-lumbar region.

SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES: The upper and lower parts of the left arm are
painful to the touch. Itching above the bend of the right arm. Stinging
in the hypothenar eminence of the left hand. 40. Pain in the hypothenar
eminence of the right hand. Pain in the dorsal portion of the left index.
Pricking in the joint of the first phalanx of the little finger.

INFERIOR EXTREMITIES: Pain in the right groin. Lancinations through the
whole extent of the left inferior extremity. 45. The left leg is red and
inflamed. Swelling of the left leg. The leg is swollen and violet-colored
in the morning; it becomes inflamed by fatigue and turns blackish red
towards evening. The whole leg is covered by large irregular patches
formed by extra-vasated blood. Malaise as if something were collected in
the internal part of the right leg above the knee. 50. The pains in the
legs continue. Uneasiness, then pricking in the thighs. Stiffness of the
leg, with impossibility of standing up for a few minutes. Pricking on the
internal surface of the right leg. Smarting on the internal superior part
of the right thigh. 55. Pricking in the right thigh. Acute pain in the
right thigh. Itching on the right thigh. Itching on the internal surface
of the left thigh. The upper part of the left leg is painful to the
touch. 60. Itching on the anterior part of the right leg. Bruised pain in
the left knee. Bruised pain under the left patella. Painful lancinations
in the internal part of the left knee. Prick as from a pin in the lower
part of the left leg. 65. Swelling of the lower part of the calf.
Cramplike pains in the left tendo-Achillis. Uneasiness in the lower
part of the tendo-Achillis. Prick under the heel. Malaise after waking
in the morning; he cannot go to sleep again; he feels as if something
incommoded him about the malleoli for several hours. This pain increases,
becoming a bruised pain. 70. Partial swellings around the malleoli. The
malleoli appear swollen. Feeling as if the lower part of the right leg
had a tendency to fall down upon the malleoli, as a stocking might do; he
often carries his hand there as if to raise it up. Cramplike pain in the
right internal malleolus. Pain above the right internal malleolus. 75.
Lancinations in the lower part of the right leg and internal malleolus.
The left leg is painful as if excoriated; the pain passes to the right
internal malleolus and becomes more acute. Lancinations in the anterior
part of the left external malleolus. Itching on the left external
malleolus. Itching on the left internal malleolus. 80. Persistent pain
above the left internal malleolus. Disagreeable sensation behind the left
internal malleolus.

SLEEP: Disturbed rest. Unquiet sleep. Dreams. Disgusting dreams. 85. He
dreams that he can neither act nor drink nor walk. He dreams of a sheep
and a dog, covered with red scarves; the former, elevated above the
ground, shook his head and was seized by the dog in the middle of his
back; the dog himself was suspended by the back by a man accompanied by
many other individuals. Afterwards, a very amorous dream with pollution.

GENERAL: Prickings in different parts of the body.




RESINA ITU.

ITU.


This rosin which comes to us from the province of St. Paul, is used
empirically for hernia.

_First day._—1. Stupefying pain in the head, worse when stooping. Vertigo
as if one would fall to the right. Earache when the least dampness sets
in, extending to the articulation of the jaw. Numbness at the tarsal
joint, after sitting. 5. Pain in the abdomen, from within outwards.
Sense of chilliness at the hypogastrium, especially in the evening.

_Second day._—Light sleep at night, but continual. Continual hiccough.
Aching pain in the forehead and eyes. 10. Beating in the right temple.
The pain extends to the ear and the articulation of the jaw. Pain on the
left side like wry-neck. Lancination in the forehead, right side. Nausea
worse during motion. 15. Pain in the left hypochondrium, when inclining
forwards.

_Third day._—Violent itching near the sternal extremity of the right
clavicle, followed by a moist tetter, which scatters in six hours.

_Fourth day._—Violent itching at the right arm; it is covered with red
pimples, rounded like pins’ head. The itching ceases in the day-time, but
the eruption lasts all day. Pimples on the left side of the neck; they
itch as much, though less inflamed. 20. Numbness of the legs. On rising
from a chair one is unable to stand straight.

_Fifth day._—Stiffness of the nape of the neck, which prevents one from
raising or inclining the head. Pain at the nape of the neck, penetrating
to the forehead and causing a numbness and heaviness which carries the
head forward. The pimples on the arm and neck scatter gradually.

_Sixth day._—Cramps at the left tarsal joint. 25. Involuntary stools.

_Seventh day._—Sudden report in the ear, with frightful pain extending to
the teeth, for several minutes; this paroxysm recurs four times in the
morning, from hour to hour. Numbness in the tarsal joint every time one
rises from a seat. Profuse painless diarrhœa. Copious, yellow, diarrhœic
stools.

_Eighth day._—30. Reports in the ears, as often as eight times a day.
Profuse sweat after the reports. Air aggravates the pain. Lancinating
pain in the region of the liver, worse when walking or stooping.
Heaviness of the head, it inclines forwards. 35. Heaviness at the eyes
when walking. Burning pain at the anus after sitting. Twinkling of the
eyes. Burning in the eyelids. Muscæ volitantes like pins’-heads. 40. Pain
from the ear to the teeth, less but longer than previously. Lancinating
pain in the orbit of the left eye, extending to the eyebrow. Toothache
worse when taking a cold drink.

_Ninth day._—Burning at the vulva followed by violent itching. Crampy
pain at the tendo-Achillis. 45. Bright-yellow stool, which cannot be
retained as soon as one stands up. Repeated sneezing. Coryza. Crampy pain
from the calf to the heel. Heaviness in the legs and weariness towards
evening.

_Twelfth day._—50. Acute pain in the knee-joint. The tongue feels big,
as if it filled the whole mouth, though the swelling is but trifling.
Red tongue. Difficulty of moving the tongue and talking. Inflammation of
the tonsils. 55. Pain in the throat and sensation as of a lump in the
pharynx. Pain in the left breast worse when walking. Itching at the left
breast and nipple, especially in the morning. Pain at the posterior iliac
spine when stretching the leg or rising, several days in succession.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

HEAD, &c.: 1. Vertigo as if one would fall to the right. Stupefying
pain in the head. Aching pain in forehead and eyes. Beating in the
right temple. 5. Twinkling of the eyes. Burning in the eyelids. Muscæ
volitantes. Lancing pain in left orbit. Earache in damp weather. 10.
Sudden report in the ear, with pain extending to the teeth. Coryza.
Toothache worse after a cold drink.

GASTRIC, &c.: Hiccough. Nausea. 15. The tongue feels big as if filling
the mouth. Difficulty of moving the tongue. Red tongue. Inflamed tonsils.
Sore throat with sensation of a lump. 20. Lancing pain in the region of
the liver worse when stooping. Involuntary stools. Diarrhœa, yellow.
Burning pain at the anus after sitting. Burning at the vulva.

CHEST, &c.: 25. Itching at the left breast and nipple. Pain in left
breast. Stiffness of the nape of the neck. Pain like wry neck. Pain from
nape of neck to forehead, causing a numbness and heaviness. 30. Pain at
the posterior iliac spine when stretching the leg. Heaviness in the legs.
Acute pain in the knee-joint. Cramps at left-tarsal joint. Numbness of
the legs and tarsal joints. 35. Numbness at the tarsal joint. Crampy pain
at tendo-Achillis. Moist tetter with itching at right clavicle. Itching
red pimples on the right arm. Pimples on left side of neck. 40. Sense of
chilliness in hypogastrium.




TRADESCANTIA DIURETICA. (MART.)

TRAD. TRADESCANTIA COMMELINA (WELL.) PORTUG.: TRAPŒRAVA.

[Illustration]


This herbaceous plant is pretty common in Brazil. Its ramose and
cylindrical stems are erect or a little inclined; the leaves are
alternate, sheathed, somewhat lanceolate, and constituting at the
extremity of the branches tufts whence arise long pedicles each of which
carries from four to six flowers; perianth double, three-leaved, the
outer one having sharp, herbaceous divisions, and the inner one being
petaloïd and blue-colored. Stamens six fertile; a free tri-locular ovary,
surmounted by a simple style. We employ the leaves.

_First day._—1. Vertigo. Pain in the left side of the chest. The
breathing is embarrassed as when one is affected with catarrh.

_Second day._—Yellowish, copious urine, depositing at the bottom of the
vessel an ash-colored, copious sediment. 5. The urine has an acrid smell.
Inflammation of the scrotum which is painful and very red. Difficult
breathing, sighing as from want of air. The symptoms continue from the
third to the fifteenth day. The breathing is very painful. 10. The
inflammation of the scrotum decreases since the twelfth day. Whitish
discharge from the urethra. Pain when urinating. Thin stream of urine.
Diarrhœa. The testicles return by the inguinal ring.




MURURE LEITE.

MUR. L.


This rosin is used as an anti-syphilitic.

1. Blennhorrhœal discharge. Ulcers on the legs. Yellow and fetid
urine. Cracking sensation in the tibia. 5. Profuse flow of saliva.
Small painless pimple which terminates in suppuration, with smarting.
Spot at the instep, painful in the middle and insensible all round the
circumference. Numbness of the left arm. Numbness of the limbs. 10.
Sciatica. Swelling of the face as in the elephantiasis of the Greeks.
Pain in a former cicatrix on the left side of the tongue. Cold hands.
Heaviness of the head. 15. Pains in the head, recurring on the third and
fourth day. Pain in the left ear, on the first day. Stool easier. Heat
in the eyes. Sore eyes. 20. Drowsy day and night. Constant restlessness
during sleep. Exaltation of ideas. Loathing of food, loss of appetite.
Pain at the left shoulder, hindering breathing when walking. 25. Pustules
on the penis. Eruption on the legs. Toothache for four days. Pimples on
the occiput, on the fourteenth day. Vomiting, on the sixteenth day. 30.
Urging to stool, with soft fæces. Little appetite. Severe pain in the
thighs. Prickings in the tongue. Heaviness of the head.


HAHNEMANN’S ARRANGEMENT.

1. Pain in the head. Heaviness of the head. Pain in left ear. Swelling
of the face. 5. Heat in the eyes. Sore eyes. Toothache for four days.
Prickings in the tongue. Flow of saliva. 10. Pain of a former cicatrix
at the tongue. Loathing of food. Vomiting. Blennorrhœa. Yellow and fetid
urine. 15. Pain at left shoulder, hindering breathing when walking.
Numbness of left arm. Cold hands. Severe pain in the thighs. Cracking
in the tibia. 20. Painful spot at the instep, insensible all round.
Sciatica. Drowsy. Restless sleep. Pustules on the penis. 25. Pimples on
the occiput. Numbness of the limbs.




CANNABIS INDICA.

CANN. IND. HASCHICH. PANGO.

[Illustration]


This is an intoxicating, herbaceous plant, with an erect stem which is
furrowed its whole length. Leaves alternate, palmate, composed of five
almost linear, serrate folioles on slender petioles. Flowers dioïchous,
with a monophyllous greenish perianth, in groups of two, placed at the
base of the leaves, and constituting a terminal spike. The male flowers
with five reflexed divisions, five stamens with almost vesicular, pendant
anthers; female flowers with an entire perianth that is split only on one
side. Fruit ovoïd, with one seed. The haschich which has been introduced
into Brazil by the blacks, is called by them pango; they are severely
forbidden to grow it in Brazil. It can only be procured with difficulty.
We employ the leaves.

This narcotic develops a good many symptoms in those who make use of it.
It is our belief that, if it had been sufficiently proved, it would be
used as much as opium and belladonna. The few symptoms which we give
below, are simply intended to stimulate others to continue the proving of
this interesting agent.

1. Dizziness when stooping, vertigo, the head inclines backwards.
Aching in occiput and temples. Beating headache at vertex. 5. Slight
pain at the pit of the stomach. This pain is followed by a very marked
pricking sensation. These pains cease after eating. Little appetite. 10.
Contraction of the eyelids. Twinkling of the eyes. Pale face. Haggard
looks. Languid eyes, heaviness of the head. Loss of appetite. 15. Very
hungry. Bitter mouth. Tongue coated white. Urine thick and reddish.
Very drowsy, even in the day-time. 20. Weary pain in the bend of the
right elbow. Vivid, sometimes extatic dreams. Chill and heat all over.
Shuddering. Pain in the joints.




PETIVERIA TETRANDRA. (GOM.)

PET. MAPPA GRAVEOLENS (WELL.) PIPI. ERVA DE PIPI.

[Illustration]


This bush is common in the fields around Rio-Janeiro, where it blossoms
the whole year. Its branches are erect, somewhat sarmentose, slightly
pubescent at their extremities, with alternate, glabrous, somewhat
undulate leaves. Flowers small, scattered over long axillary or terminal
spikes; perianth persistent, herbaceous, with four linear divisions.
Stamens four, alternate with the divisions of the perianth and a little
taller. A single ovary, surmounted by a style, divided into ten reflexed
stigmata. Capsule flattened, containing a single seed. The roots are
branching and very fibrous; they smell strongly of garlic.

We employ the recent root.


Prover: _Dr. Manuel Duarte Moreira._

1. Merry, disposed to sing. Deep sleep, longer than usual, for the first
three days. Drowsy all day, with frequent yawning, but no desire to
lie down. Insignificant or unpleasant dreams, scarcely recollected on
waking. 5. Sleeps longer, the first day. Headache, on waking. Sleepy with
yawning, after breakfast, the first day. Drowsy after dinner, but no
sleep, second day. Shuddering all over, sweat; the hair stands on end,
second day, 9 in the morning. 10. Heaviness of the head on waking, eight
hours after taking the drug. Weight at the vertex, which seems to press
on the brain, with heaviness of the eyelids and difficulty of opening
them, without sleep. Deep-seated and dull pain in the upper part of the
brain, worse when touched, talking or sitting; less when walking or
moving about, first day. Same symptom on the second day, but less. Sense
of fullness in the head, second day. 15. Sense of fullness in the head,
as if it would split, especially after twelve o’clock, on the third day.
Sensation as if hot water were thrown on the hairy scalp, penetrating
to the brain, second day. The headache disappears on the third day,
it becomes lighter and changes. Sight feebler and dimmer than usual.
Painful heat at the margin of the eyelids, worse when closing the eyes.
20. Dim sight after dinner, second day. Fetid breath. Sensation in the
throat as if one had swallowed some astringent substance. Sensation in
the mouth and throat as if one had eaten some acrid and resinous fruit,
second day, in the morning. Dull pain in the bowels and hypogastrium,
second day. 25. Constipation for three days. Copious urination, in the
morning. Light-colored, watery urine, without smell or sediment, third
day. Violent lancinations cinder the right breast, at each inspiration.
Slight pain at the sternum, when stooping. 30. The voice becomes hoarse
from much coughing. Weariness and numbness of the left arm, with pain in
the humero-cubital articulation, first day. Numbness of the tips of the
fingers, especially the ring-finger. Sensation at the middle of the right
thigh as if bitten by an ant; itching and heat after scratching. Cramp
in the calves during the night, second day.

Second prover: _Mlle. Norma_, 21 years old, sanguine temperament, good
constitution, pale face, melancholy disposition, chestnut-colored hair.

35. Disposed to laugh and jest, first day. Sad, desires to weep; shortly
after, involuntary weeping, sixth day, morning. Long, deep sleep, the
first three days. Sleeps all day, with frequent gaping, but no desire to
lie down. Dreams about quarrelling, she does not recollect her dreams
on waking. 40. First day, sleeps longer than usual in the morning.
Headache on waking. Somnolence after breakfast, with gaping, first day.
Drowsy after dinner, second day. Sad dreams about sick persons in her
family, fifth day. 45. Profuse, cold sweat, and chilliness all over,
with shuddering after the first sleep, sixth day. Shuddering throughout
her body, when lying down. Febrile heat, pale face, cold hands, on the
evening of the sixth day. Two small dark-yellow spots on the neck.
Headache, with a small and feeble pulse; heat in the face, especially
on the right cheek, which is felt very intensely, though the skin feels
cool, first day. 50. Painful stitch in the forehead, worse when opening
the eyes, with external heat of the head on the first day, at 2 in the
afternoon. Stabbing sensation in the right temple, first day, at 3 in the
afternoon. Dull pain, with beating in the left temple, third day. Aching
pain in the temples. Pain in the forehead, with compressive sensation
in the brain, aggravated by walking. 55. Eyes half closed, swollen
externally, surrounded by blue margins, especially near the nose, for
three days. Weight on the eyelids constraining her to close her eyes; in
this state she sees a variety of figures, sixth day. The veins of the
nose are swollen and bluish. Redness and heat of the left ear, for some
minutes, third day. Stomach-ache with sensation of coldness internally.
60. Acute and seated pain in the whole stomach, when rising from a chair,
suffocation, with cold feet, which obliges her to remain in bed, on the
evening of the sixth day. Pains in the muscles of the superior and inner
side of the elbow, like stings of ants. Contusive pain in the arms and
legs. Heaviness and weariness of the limbs, sixth day, morning. 65.
Numbness of the lower limbs, with aversion to exercise. Contusive pain in
the arms and legs, sixth day. Cold feet, in bed, morning.

Third prover: _Mlle. Silvia_, 20 years old, sanguine temperament, good
constitution, gay disposition.

Disposed to sing. Regular and deep sleep, longer than usual, the first
three days. 70. Sleeps all day, with frequent yawning, but no desire
to lie down. Unpleasant dream which she does not recollect on waking.
Wakes at 4 in the morning, falls asleep again a quarter of an hour
afterwards. Light and disturbed sleep, after breakfast, first day, 9 in
the morning. Deep sleep at 10, same day. Deep sleep, second day. 75.
General prostration, with disposition to lie down, but no sleep, third
day, 9 in the morning. Sad dreams, which she does not recollect. No
sleep in bed. Profuse and cold sweat, after her first sleep. Prickings
at the right shoulder, followed by inflammatory redness for 15 minutes.
80. Lancinations or shootings through the whole body, as if needles were
stuck in; followed by itching from the elbow to the hands, with small
violet-colored spots on the arm, back and feet, second day. Pain at
the outer part of the left arm, with a large, red, inflamed spot like
erysipelas. Heat on the surface of the body as from exposure to the sun,
the feet being cold. Pain at the vertex, as from a blow, dull pain on
the top of the head, left side, worse when turning the head or walking,
second day, 11 o’clock in the morning. Benumbing and deep-seated pain
with pressure, in the temples, and dull pain on the vertex, second day.
85. At the moment if lying down in bed, explosion in the head, the noise
passing through the ears, third day. Deep-seated pain, at times in the
forehead, at times in the nape of the neck. Aversion to exercise, she
wants to remain quiet. Laming numbness of the arm and legs, fifth day,
morning. Heaviness in the forehead, when stooping, here and there, sixth
day, noon. 90. Weight in the eyes, and prostration as from sleepiness,
without however being sleepy. Sensitiveness to the light of day. Redness
of the conjunctiva, especially near the internal angle of the left eye.
Sudden inflammation of the left eye at dinner, continuing for three
days. The flame of the candle looks yellow, and seems surrounded by a
red halo. 95. Redness of the wing of the nose and left cheek, third day.
Frequent sneezing after 12, fifth day. Redness on the left cheek. Sharp
lancinations in the epigastrium from within outwards, fifth day, evening.
Lancination in the stomach after dinner, seventh day. 100. Pain in the
throat, with difficulty of swallowing saliva. Catarrh from the third to
the fifth day. When lying down, sensation in the spine as if she had
strained it by lifting a heavy weight, first and second day, evening; the
pain is aggravated by raising herself again or by inclining backwards,
and disappears when she inclines forwards. Numbness at the wrist, along
the course of the cubital nerve, with sensitiveness to contact, second
day, evening. Shooting throughout the body, followed by itching at the
back part of the forearm, second day, morning. 105. Redness and intense
inflammation at the outer part of the left forearm, second day, 11 in
the morning. Burning pain at the left radius, with contusive sensation
when touched, third day. Violent itching of the ball of the left thumb,
followed by inflammatory swelling, third day, evening. Weariness of the
arms and legs, and numbness as after a long walk, fourth day, morning.
Painful numbness at the outer parts of the arms and legs. 110. Cold
feeling in the interior of the bones, fourth day, noon. Numbness of the
anus and legs, with deep-seated pain at times in the forehead, at others
in the nape of the neck, with aversion to motion, fifth day, morning.
Excessive coldness penetrating to the bones, hands and feet, seventh
day. Sudden numbness of the knees, with dull pain in the tibia, first
day, noon. Acute and lancinating pain in the metatarsal bone, which
corresponds to the left little toe. 115. Painful pricking in the left
fifth toe, eighth day, morning, a few moments after, the same toe feels
as if it would turn round from above downwards.

Fourth prover: _Miss Célia_, 17 years old, sanguine temperament, good
constitution, pale face, cheerful disposition, auburn hair.

Evanescent and confused ideas. Want of memory. Passing recollection,
which escape from her mind without her thinking of it. Sadness unto
tears, with headache, second day. 120. Deep sleep, commencing early, and
lasting longer than usual, for three days. Drowsy all day, with frequent
yawning, but no desire to lie down. Unpleasant dreams which she does
not recollect on waking. Quiet sleep in spite of the disturbing dreams
which she forgets on waking, second day. Prostration as from sleepiness,
without desiring to sleep. 125. Dreams about dead bodies, she wakes with
a start and cold sweat all over her body. Sensation as if the finger
were pressed on the right temple, with sensitiveness to contact, second
day, noon. Lancinating pain in the right temple, suddenly shifting to
the left temple and thence to the vertex, where a burning sensation is
experienced, second day. Pain and heat in the forehead, with pressure
on the eyes, second day, three in the afternoon. Dull pain at the root
of the nose, evening. 130. Numbness and compressive sensation as if a
warm bandage were wrapped round the head. General prostration as from
sleepiness. The voice seems to come from afar. The body seems insensible
when she is lying down, and she feels as if in a swoon. When walking she
feels as if she did not touch the soil, and as though she would fall.
135. Painfulness of the eyes, as if the eyeballs were driven out of the
orbits by some foreign body. Sensation as if the head were full of warm
water. Sadness, tears; in her sadness she remains seated, motionless,
speechless (all these symptoms occurred within an hour, second day, after
12). Headache, with weight on the eyes, second day. Sensation as if
stung by ants under the left lower eyelid. 140. Nose slightly inflamed
and shining. Dull pain at the root of the nose, on the evening of the
first day. Pain at the left wing of the nose, which spreads to the
opposite side, followed by bloating on the dorsum of the nose, second
day, at noon. Sense of heat in the face, though the skin feels cool.
Sensation as if a needle had been stuck in the upper lip from within
outwards, eleventh day, on rising in the morning. 145. Toothache. Dry
mouth. Burning tongue as from hot water, on rising from bed. On going to
bed, flow of watery and cold saliva, depositing an ash-colored sediment
and whitish granulations, which taste and smell like bile, but are not
bitter. Sharp and lancinating pain striking through the spleen from below
upwards, second day. 150. Slight colic in the descending colon. From
11 in the morning until evening she urinates every five minutes, with
heat in the urethra, second day. She urinates three or four times an
hour, without pain, third day. Urine colorless, on the following days.
Tightness and beating in the region of the heart, fourth day, evening.
155. Deep-seated and dull pains in the chest, under the sternum. Dull
pain in the posterior cervical region, when moving, the neck, second
day, noon. In the right wrist-joint she feels an internal, sharp pain
which seems to be more violent externally. A similar pain is felt at the
left wrist, but less intense. Pain from the humero-cubital articulation
to the wrist. 160. Numbness at the posterior and internal part of the
forearm. Sharp pain, and sensation of painful roughness at the forearm,
first day, evening. Pain in the right hand, from the circumference to
the centre. Sudden pain at the left little finger, striking through
the whole forearm, becoming seated at the humero-cubital articulation
and increasing gradually, with sensation of constriction, second day,
morning. Shooting, and itching at the internal and upper part of the
forearm, second day, morning. 165. Pains in the last fingers of the
right hand as if they had been struck with a hammer, second day, noon.
Sweat in the palm of the hands, second day, evening. Twisting sensation
in the scapulo-humeral articulation, when stooping, third day. Sense of
paralysis in the forearms and the phalangeal articulations, the fingers
feeling numb, third day, evening. Heat in the skin of the arm, as if
slightly burnt, after rubbing the hand over it. 170. Slight crampy
pain in the tendons of the palms of the hands, and in the forepart
of the wrist. Similar pain in the tendons of the ring-fingers, sixth
day. Renewed crampy pain in the hands, ninth day. Cramp in the right
ring-finger, tenth day. Slight cramps in the hands, twelfth day. 175.
Numbness from the knee to the sole of the foot, where it becomes seated,
first day, noon. Weakness and numbness of the legs, especially when
rising, first day, after 12 in the day-time. Weakness in the legs and
knees when stooping. Weakness in the legs, so that the knees give way,
second day, after 12. Pain at the forepart of the tibia, as from a blow.
180. Contusive pain at the calf, aggravated by contact. Dullness of the
sentient faculty when lying, as if the body were numb.

Fifth prover: _Miss Nina_, 14 years old, sanguine temperament, cheerful
disposition, red face, auburn hair.

The least cause excites her mirth; she would like to sing. Regular sleep,
generally longer than the three first days. Drowsy all day, with frequent
yawning, without any desire to go to bed. Dreams which she is unable to
recollect. Lachrymation, with sensation as of sand in the eyes. Urine
more profuse and of a lighter color. Numbness of the right arm.

Sixth prover: _Mr. Cyprien Huet_, 51 years old, sanguine temperament,
robust constitution, serious disposition, red conjunctiva, weak sight,
redness of the margin of the eyelids.

Very gay. He laughs and sings all day. Deep sleep, commencing sooner and
ending later than usual, for four days. Quarrelsome dreams, second day.
Violet-colored spots elongated horizontally, on the right hypochondrium.
Dull pain at a point on the hairy scalp, and pressure at the occiput
on the right side. 195. Boring pain at the top of the forehead, second
day. Contusive pain at the zygomata. Violent lancinations in the upper
part of the forehead and in the left side of the head, for one minute,
second day, noon. Pain in the upper part of the left parietal bone, as
if the skull would split. Boring pains in the right upper lid, first
day. 200. Dull pain at the right eye, as from a blow, relieved by
pressure, second day, noon. Slight pain in the nose. Intense and sudden
itching on the dorsum of the nose. Stoppage of the right ear, with hard
hearing. Contusive pains in the outer parts of the orbits. 205. Sensation
as of a pustule on the cheek, of the size of a pea, for some seconds.
Violent itching at the same place. Sensation in the throat as from
swallowing some astringent substance. Borborygmi when lying down, second
day, morning. Lancination in the hypochondria. 210. Mucous diarrhœa,
dark-colored, mixed with fæcal matter in hard and single fragments,
third day. Light-colored and copious urine, second and third day. Dry
heat in the palms of the hands, for several days. Sense of contusion in
the muscles of the right forearm, at the inner side between the radius
and cubitus, first day, morning. Crampy pain in the muscles of the right
hand, especially at the thumb, first day, morning. 215. Dull pain and
numbness, as is experienced when pressing the brachial nerve where it
passes over the internal condyle of the humerus; aggravated by contact,
first day, noon. Violent crampy pain in the muscles of the palm of the
right hand, for five minutes. Crampy pain in the left little finger.
Numbness of the fingers of the right hand for several hours, first day,
after 12. Lancination and heat at the tip of the right thumb, as if
there were a whitlow, extending to the first phalangeal articulation.
220. Heaviness and numbness of the extremities, first day, evening.
Contusive pain at the forearm. Itching at the last fingers. Numbness
of the extremities after rising from bed, second day, three different
times. Itching in the palm of the left hand. 225. Pain in the external
middle part of the right forearm, as if needles were thrust in. A similar
feeling at the left arm, but less distinct. On rising from bed, in the
morning, numbness and itching at the right foot, first day. Dull pain in
the knee-joint and bend of the knee, especially the first day. Numbness
and slight itching of the right leg, down to the foot, second day, noon.
230. Slight, acute and circumscribed pains in the groins, repeatedly
and at intervals. Heat in the loins, second day. Dry heat all over,
especially in the palms of the hands. General weakness, every morning
after rising from bed.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

MENTAL, MORAL, HEAD: 1. Sad. Sad, motionless, speechless. Confused ideas.
Merry, disposed to sing. 5. Boring pain at the top of the forehead.
Lancinations in forehead and left side of the hand. Splitting pain in
left parietal bone. Pain and head in forehead, with pressure on the eyes.
Numbness and compressive sensation at the head as from a warm bandage.
10. Sensation as if the finger were pressed on the right temple. Lancing
pain in the temples, shifting to the vertex where she feels a burning.
Pain at vertex, as from a blow. Numb pain, with pressure, in the temples.
Heaviness in the forehead when stooping. 15. Headache, with small pulse
and hot face. Painful stitch in forehead, worse when opening the eyes.
Stabbing sensation in right temple. Dull, beating pain in left temple.
Compressive pain in forepart of head. 20. Headache on waking. Heaviness
of the head, also at the vertex. Sense of fullness in the head, as if
it would split. Sense as if hot water were thrown on the hairy scalp.
Deep-seated pain in upper part of the brain, less when walking about. 25.
Dull pain at a point on the hairy scalp.

EYES, &c.: Lachrymation and feeling as of sand in the eyes. Boring pains
in right upper lid. Dull pain at the right eye as from a blow. Pain as if
the eyes were driven out. 30. Stinging under the left lower lid. Redness
of the conjunctiva. The flame of the candle looks yellow. Eyes half
closed, bloated. Weight at the eyelids, she has to close them and then
sees figures. 35. Dimness of sight. Painful burning at the margin of the
eyelids. Toothache. Sense of heat in the face. Itching of the dorsum of
the nose. 40. Nose inflamed, shining. Pain at the alæ nasi, followed by
bloating of the dorsum of the nose. Stoppage of the right ear. Report in
the ears when lying down. The left ear is hot and red.

MOUTH, STOMACH, &c.: 45. Stitching in the upper lip. Dry mouth. Burning
in the tongue. Flow of saliva in the evening, with ash-colored sediment
and granulations tasting like bile. Sore throat with difficulty of
swallowing saliva. 50. Astringent sensation in the throat. Lancinations
in the epigastrium and stomach. Stomach-ache, with cold feeling
internally. Acute pain in stomach when rising from a chair. Circumscribed
pains in the groins. 55. Rumbling. Lancing pain in the spleen. Dull pain
in bowels.

STOOL: Constipation. Slimy diarrhœa. 60. She urinates every five minutes,
with heat in the urethra. Light-colored urine.

BRONCHIAL: Cough with hoarseness. Suffocation, with cold feet, in bed.
Fetid breath. 65. Pain at the sternum when stooping. Deep-seated pain
under the sternum. Tightness and beating in the region of the heart.

EXTREMITIES: Heat in the loins. Twisting sensation at the shoulder-blade,
when stooping. 70. Sensation in the spine as if strained when lying
down. Prickings at right shoulder, followed by inflammatory redness.
The left arm feels weary and numb. Pain at left arm, with large, red,
inflamed spot. Burning pain at left radius. 75. Inflammatory redness at
left forearm. Sense of paralysis at the forearm and phalanges. Shootings
and itching at the inner forearm. Numbness at the inside of the forearm.
Sharp pain and rough feeling at the forearm. 80. Pain in the forearm.
Contusive sensation at right forearm. Pricking pain at the outer and
middle part of the right forearm. Numbness of the right fingers. Stinging
pains at the elbow. 85. Numbness at the wrist with sensitiveness to
contact. Internal sharp pain in right wrist. Crampy pain in the palm
of the hand. Sweaty in the palms of the hands. Pain in the fingers of
the right hand, as from a blow. 90. Pain in the right hand. Dry heat in
the palms of the hands. Crampy pain in the muscles of the right hand.
Numbness of the tips of the fingers. Itching and inflammatory swelling
of the ball of the left thumb. Cramp in the ring-finger. 95. Sudden pain
from the little finger to the extent of the forearm, with constriction
at the elbow. Darting and heat at the tip of the right thumb. Numbness
of the lower limbs. Biting sensation at right thigh, with itching and
smarting after scratching. Cramp in the calves, at night. 100. Numbness
of the legs, also with weakness. Contusive pain at the calf. Numbness and
itching of the right leg. Sudden numbness of the knees. Dull pain in the
knee joint. 105. Lancing pain in the metatarsal bone. Painful pricking in
the left fifth toe, followed by a sensation as if it would turn.

SLEEP: Drowsy, yawning. Deep sleep. Drowsy after breakfast and
dinner. 110. Light sleep. Sad dreams about sick persons. Dreams about
quarrelling. Unpleasant dreams. Sad dreams. 115. Dreams about dead
bodies, she wakes with a start and covered with cold sweat. Quarrelsome
dreams.

FEVER: Febrile heat, pale face, cold hands. Heat all over. Dry heat all
over. 120. Shuddering all over. Cold feeling in the bones. Profuse cold
sweat and chilliness, first part of the night.

CUTANEOUS: Violet-colored spots on the right hypochondrium. Two yellow
spots on the neck.

GENERAL: 125. Heaviness and numbness of the extremities. Weakness every
morning. The body feels insensible when lying down, as if in a swoon.
Prostration. Dartings through the whole body, followed, by itching and
violet-colored spots on the arm, back and feet. 130. Numbness of the arms
and legs. Contusive pain in the arms and legs. Heaviness of the limbs.




JANIPHA MANIHOT. (KUNTH.)

JAN. JATROPHA MANIHOT. (LIN.) MANIHOT UTILISSIMA. (POHL.) MANIOCA MANDI.

[Illustration]


The manioca which is cultivated, a good deal in South-America, for its
nutritious root, is a bush with a round and ramose stem, often growing
to the size of three feet high. Its leaves, which are of a sea-green
color, and supported by long petioles, are alternate, palmate, with
five to seven lanciolate, smooth and entire lobes. The flowers, which
are monoïchous, form branching panicles either terminal or axillary;
their perianth is calicoïd, campanulate, with five deep divisions of
a light-yellow color, changing to a brown at the extremity of the
divisions. Flowers male, ten stamens, with alternately long and short
filaments inserted in a fleshy disk, which, in the female flowers,
surrounds the base of a sub-globular ovary, with three uni-ovulate
chambers; no style, but three stygmata presenting six or seven thick,
compressed lobes that constitute a thick and sinuous mass. The roots,
which are tuberculous and very big, contain an abundance of milky juice
which is very poisonous when fresh, and which is extracted first by
pressure and afterwards by the desiccation of the feculent portion that
constitutes the chief nutriment of the Brazilian farmer. It is this juice
that we employ in medicine.

On the second of July, 1845, a large quantity of this dangerous liquid
was expressed before the institute, and an ounce of it was taken by Dr.
Jo. Vincente Martins, and several pupils among whom Messrs. Antonio de
Souza, Dias and Chedifer, seemed to be the most eager. The symptoms were
so violent that most of the provers were obliged to antidote them. We
trust that the devotedness of the Brazilian physicians will excite a
corresponding enthusiasm among their brethren in other parts.

_First day._—1. Eructations, at half past 6 in the morning. Slight
feeling of dryness in the œsophagus. Slight weight in the stomach. Drowsy
in the day-time. 5. Thirst. Falls asleep late. Stool easier than common.
Pain at the velum palati. Pain in the orbits. 10. Pain in the chest.
Weakness of the knees in going up-stairs. Sad. Feeble. Dizzy. 15. Acute
pain in the left arm, at night.

_Second day._—Vague pain in the abdomen, while urinating, at 6 in
the morning. Copious light-colored, watery, fetid stools. Renewed
ineffectual urging to stool, at 8. Appetite when commencing breakfast,
it suddenly ceases after taking a little milk. 20. Sense of swelling in
the left tonsil. Profuse sweat during sleep, ceasing on waking. Watery,
greenish, fetid stools. Slight dull pains in the stomach and bowels, with
rumbling. Sudden pain, with lancination in the urethra, above the fossa
navicularis, for two minutes. 25. Tenesmus and pressure in the sphincter
ani, with pricking, at 3 in the afternoon. Weight in the head, especially
high up in the forehead, at 4 in the afternoon. Drowsy, at 4 in the
afternoon. Distressing dreams, he wants to save a child from asphyxia,
but the parents refuse to have it treated. Dizzy. 30. Wakes in bad humor.
Trembling of the knees and limbs, with violent emotion when hearing other
persons talk about the malady which he fears he is afflicted with. Pain
in the side of the chest and in the shoulders, worse during motion.

_Third day._—Uncertain and transitory, but very acute pains in the
stomach. Fetid sweat in the axillæ and about the scrotum. 35. Doughy
mouth, with bad breath. Noise in the ears like that of rushing steam.
Slight heat in the urethra. Swelling of the ankles, rather less at
night. Pain in the back. 40. Pain at the left elbow. Moral and physical
prostration.

_Fourth day._—Heaviness in the stomach, all night, eased by placing the
hands upon the part. Optical illusions. Bitter mouth. 45. Pain in the
forehead and the nasal fossæ.

_Fifth day._—Pain at the inside of the thigh. Dreams about a fire with
little flames like those which were observed during the examination at
the institute of Rio Janeiro from the tenth attenuation of the crotalus
cascavella, by means of the solar microscope.

_Sixth day._—Drowsy. Diarrhœa in the morning. 50. Pain at the loins. Icy
coldness of the knees.

_Seventh day._—Icy coldness under the shoulder-blades, in bed, even when
well covered. Cold feet and hands.

_Eighth day._—Rheumatic pain in the right thigh. 55. Icy coldness in the
arm, even to the marrow. The whole head, especially the nape of the neck,
is cold.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

Dizzy. Sad. Bad humor on waking. The whole head and especially the nape
of the neck, are cold. Weight in the head. Pain in forehead and nasal
fossa. Optical illusion. Pain in the orbits. Whizzing in the ears.
Eructations. Thirst. Appetite at breakfast, ceasing suddenly after
tasting milk. Doughy mouth. Dry feeling in the œsophagus. Pain at velum
palati. Sense of swelling in left tonsil. Dull pain in stomach and
bowels. Weight at the stomach. Tenesmus, and pressure in sphincter ani,
with pricking. Watery, fetid stool. Ineffectual urging to stool. Painful
darting in the urethra. Heat in the urethra. Vague pain in the abdomen
when urinating. Pain in the side of the chest, during motion. Pain in the
chest. Fetid sweat in the axillæ. Acute pain in the left arm. Pain at the
left elbow. Icy coldness in the arm. Cold feet and hands. Rheumatic pain
in the right thigh. Trembling of the knees and limbs. Swelling about the
ankles. Weakness of the knees: Icy coldness under the shoulder-blades, in
bed. Distressing dreams. Drowsy. Dream about little flames. Sweat during
sleep. Prostration.




MELASTOMA ACKERMANI.

MELAST. TAPIXIRICA.

[Illustration]


This species has never yet been described by authors. It is a bush with
round branches, triangular at their extremities, and covered with a
brownish bark. The leaves are opposite, supported by short and hairy
petioles; their limb is oval, reticulate, covered with stiff hairs, and
traversed on its lower surface by five thick almost parallel nerves
running from the base to the summit of the leaf. The flowers are sessile
supported by terminal axes. We employ the leaves.

_First day._—1. In the morning, pain in the region of the sternum.
Sneezing. Heat all over. Palpitation of the heart. 5. Buzzing in the left
ear. Acid stomach. Profuse saliva. Shuddering, then sweat. Vertigo.

_Second day._—10. Looseness of the teeth. Lancination and prickings at
the vertex. Stitches at the feet, ankles and wrists. (Disappearance
of an inveterate diarrhœa with colic). Itching and heat at night.
Tenesmus with constriction of the sphincter. 15. Pain at the perinæum.
Light-colored and foaming urine. Hardness of the penis, even when there
is no erection. Fetid urine. Digging in the teeth. 20. Heat and pricking
at the anus. Pricking in the urethra. Weakness of the thighs. Profuse
urine. Lancinations in the perinæum, the urethra and the testicles.
25. Rumbling. Urine more cloudy and less foaming. Pain in the abdomen.
Prostration. Pale face. 30. Drowsy in the day-time. Urine with white
sediment. Albuminous urine. Horrid pain and pulling from the perinæum
to the groin, for six hours; while seated and not passing off in any
position. Violent shuddering for four hours, followed by heat without
sweat. 35. White coated tongue. Bitter mouth. Pain in the loins. Red
urine without smell, with bloody coagula. Headache and sensitiveness of
the hairy scalp. 40. Œdema of the legs. Eruption on the lips, especially
the upper. Internal heat.




SEDINHA.

[Illustration]


Herbaceous plant, with a slender, round and pubescent stem; the leaves
are opposite, lanceolate and very sharp; their upper surface is hairy
and of a darker green than their lower surface, which is covered with
long, silky hairs. This plant is quite common in the neighborhood of
Rio-Janeiro. We employ the leaves.

1. Aching pain at the sternal articulation of the fourth ribs. Internal
itching, with desire to scratch, in the pit of the stomach. Sensation
in the region of the liver as if penknives were thrust in. Tenesmus.
5. The urine burns like boiling water. Restless dreams about murders,
monstrous animals. Distress on seeing any one eat. Pain in the pit of
the stomach in raising one’s-self. Pressure in the temples and vertex.
10. Bone-pains above the eyes. Constant yawning for two days. Pain in
the abdomen, after dinner, apparently proceeding from the pit of the
stomach, with slight colic. The teeth are sensitive and set on edge,
especially the right upper incisores. Itching in the left ear, with a
good deal of ear-wax. 15. Digging pain in the right lung. He raises a
bloody mucus. Desquamation on the back of the hand, extending to the
nails, where the skin becomes loose and forms hang-nails. Itching at the
pubis. Pimples and itching on the back, chest and arms. 20. Colic in the
evening, with incarcerated flatulence; relief is obtained by the emission
of flatulence. Toothache after eating, with bleeding and sensitiveness
of the gums. Pain in the bad teeth. Headache as if from water-bubbles
enclosed here and there in the forehead. Sense of excoriation in the
urethra. 25. Slight pain in urinating. Discharge from the urethra of a
water mixed with little mucous flocks. Heat on the back of the hand as
if scorched by the sun, followed by desquamation. The gums are extremely
sensitive, and the incisor teeth set on edge. Ludicrous dreams; he is
pursued by crocodiles and he drives them away by sneezing. 30. Coffee
aggravates the symptoms; the incisor teeth are set on edge, with sense of
coldness in these teeth which descends from time to time. Caries of an
incisor tooth.




SPIGGURUS MARTINI. (NOBIS.)

SPIG. SPIGGURUS SPINOSA (FR. CUV.) HISTRIX SUBSPINOSUS. THE PORCUPINE.

[Illustration]


This little animal is common in Brazil where it lives on trees and
secures itself by means of its hind-feet, it uses its tail, which is
pretty long, as a means of descending. Its length, from the muzzle to
the tip of the tail, is about a foot; the tail is almost as long as
the trunk. The upper parts of the body are covered with sharp prickles
about an inch and a half long, and attached to the skin by means of a
very thin pedicle. The head-prickles are white at the base, black in the
middle and of a yellowish-brown at the top, the dorsal prickles are of
a sulphur-yellow at their base. The prickles on the rump and the first
third of the tail, are black at their extremity. All the prickles are
very close together, mingled with a few long and fine hairs. The lower
limbs are covered with a grayish fur, interspersed with little prickles;
the tail is furnished with prickles at its upper part, and is covered
with stiff and black hairs; the extremity of the tail is bare.

We triturate the prickles taken from one of the sides.


Prover: _Jo. Vincente Martins._

_First day._—Took one dose of the third trituration at 8 in the morning.
1. Desire to vomit and nausea at the sight of food, immediately. At
night, sense of dryness and fullness in the stomach. Very drowsy after
dinner.

_Second day._—5. Wakes early. Merry and quiet dreams. Sense of fullness
in the abdomen, at 5 in the morning, when lying. Diarrhœa. Transitory
pains in the toes, right temple and one of the right cuspidati. 10. Pains
at the lower extremity of the right forearm. Pain at the right zygoma.
Pain at the first incisor. Bleeding of the gums. Pain in one half of the
head. 15. Buzzing in the ears. The knees give way, likewise the tarsal
joints. The toothache becomes obstinate. After dinner all the pains
cease. Shuddering with chattering of the teeth. 20. Cough with pains in
the chest. Stitch in the region of the heart, left side, which stops
his speech for two minutes. Pain at the right arm, from the hand to the
elbow, as if extending the arm were prevented by a string. Improvement
when turning the arm or lifting a weight, or moving it about; aggravation
as soon as these movements cease. After breakfast, boring pain through
the bones of the skull. 25. Aggravation when lying down, and improvement
when walking in the open air. Pains in the stomach, as if strung together.

_Third day._—Quiet sleep with merry dreams; in the morning he dreams of
insects and a serpent which it was difficult to kill. Painful sensation
at the articulation of the jaw. Whizzing and buzzing from the left ear
to the back part of the head. 30. Long-lasting prickings at the zygoma.
Very much disposed to write, in the morning, ceasing after breakfast.
Heaviness of the head from 10 to 11. Abundant desquamation in the region
of the whiskers and at the knee. The whizzing in the ears continues. 35.
Acute pain in the intercostal muscles, in the evening, while riding on
horseback. Prickings on the vertex from time to time, especially on the
right side. Pain at the lower extremity of the forearm. Dizziness in
the back part of the head when writing. Roaring in the ears, as from a
distant gale. 40. Bitter mouth and throat, with salt taste. Nausea, with
piercing pain in the back, for 15 minutes.

_Fourth day._—Boring pain through the skull-bones. Cough as the day
before. General weakness. 45. Drowsy all day. Lancination in the left
side of the head, through the skull-bones; inability to move the head,
for three minutes. When sitting or rising, lancinating pain in the right
big toe hindering walking, for two minutes. 50. Painful swelling of the
abdomen, before dinner. Itching of the pubis after taking tea.

_Fifth day._—Disposed to yawn, with flow of saliva. Lachrymation. Stitch
in the left side, for five minutes, hindering gaping. 55. Shootings in
the epigastrium, for several minutes. Pain in the left side, at the
moment when he attempted to gape. Acute pain from the left ear to the
jaw, for two minutes. Constriction from the neck to the diaphragm, with
heaviness of the head and arms. 60. Numbness for half an hour. Pain in
the right side, for two minutes, as if a plug were thrust in. Pain in
the urethra after urinating, worse when stooping in order to pick up
something. Pain around the navel. Continued swelling and pain of the
abdomen, down to the left groin. 65. Drowsy. Good appetite. Nausea after
dinner. Shuddering from time to time. Heat and numbness of the feet. 70.
Merry dreams, at night.

_Sixth day._—Itching all over, with bleeding after scratching. Pain in
the right arm, as if the bones were broken, with inability to grasp
any thing. Deafness on the left ear, as if stopped. Inconsistent and
capricious mood.

_Tenth day._—The scales on the head and in the whiskers are less;
before, they were so thick that he did not feel either the cold or
heat, and was insensible to water. Irritable, he quarrels about the
least trifle. Cracks between the toes. Violent pain in the left kidney.
Constant whizzing in the ears. 80. The speech is sometimes embarrassed.
He discovers some gray hairs. His hair falls off. Every thing is
disagreeable to him; he desires to travel.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

Dizziness behind the head. Capricious mood. Every thing is disagreeable
to him, he desires to travel. Prickings on the vertex. Darting through
the left skull-bones. Hemicrania. Boring pain in the skull, after
breakfast. Heaviness of the head. The hair falls off. Lachrymation.
Deafness on the left ear. Whizzing in the ears. Buzzing in the ears.
Pain in the articulation of the jaw. Bleeding of the gums. Pain at the
right zygoma. Prickings at the zygoma. Bitter mouth, with salt taste.
Nausea, with piercing pain in the back. Desire to vomit at the sight of
food. Drowsy after dinner. Embarrassed speech. Constrictive pain in the
stomach. Dry and full feeling at stomach, at night. Painful swelling of
the abdomen, before dinner. Shootings in the epigastrium. Pain in right
side as from a plug. Pain around the navel. Violent pain in the left
kidney. Sense of fullness in the abdomen. Pain in the urethra, after
urinating, worse when stooping. Itching of the pubis, after taking tea.
Cough with pain in the chest. Stitch at the heart. Constriction from the
neck to the diaphragm. Pain in the intercostal muscles. Pain in right
arm, as if broken. Pains at lower end of the right forearm. Pain at the
right arm, as if the stretching were prevented by a string. The knees
give way. Heat and numbness of the feet. Cracks between the toes. Lancing
pain in the right big toe. Yawning. Morning-dream about a serpent.
Merry dreams. Shuddering. Shuddering, with chattering of the teeth.
Desquamation at the whiskers. Itching all over, with bleeding after
scratching. Pains in the toes, right temple. Feels better in the open air.




CONVOLVULUS DUARTINUS. (NOBIS.)

CONVUL. DUART. CALONYCTION SPECIOSUM. (D. C.) IPOMEA BONA NOX. (LINN.)
CONVOLVULUS PULCHERRIMUS. (WELL.) MORNING-GLORY.

[Illustration]


This is a climbing plant, cultivated in America and Europe. Leaves large,
entire, cordate, alternate, on long petioles, generally arising from the
axil of the flower-bearing branches. Calix with five unequal folioles,
the three outer ones sharp, the two inner ones oval and foliaceous. Corol
white, large expanding into a large circular limb. Stamens five, adhering
by their filaments to the tube of the corol which is shorter than the
stamens. Anthers linear acuminate. The base of the ovary is surrounded
by a glandular disk; style very long, filiform, terminated by a shaggy,
bilobate stygma; fruit with a coriaceous tegument. There are two or three
flowers on the flower-bearing pedicels; they resemble a trumpet in shape,
whence their Brazilian name “herva trombetta.” This plant blossoms in the
summer-months. We employ the flower.


Prover: _Dr. Manoel Duarte Moreira._

1. Heat and burning of the skin all over, with prickings like the stings
of insects. Profuse sweat in bed, several nights in succession. Red spot
on the right cheek when rising from bed, it disappears in the course of
the day. Shuddering in the day-time, several different times. 5. Small
red spot in the right side of the neck. Drowsiness in the evening, in
three provers. Prostration, in two provers. Dreams about quarrels.
10. Reveries in the day-time. Dreams about dead persons and about the
incisores falling out. Dreams that one flies along an illuminated
street; appearance of a ghost; waking with a start. Languor. Sinking of
the moral strength, in two provers. 15. Hypochondria. Mental languor.
Discouragement. Pain in the left temporal region, in relation with the
eye. Pain at the right cheek. 20. Pain in the frontal region. Dizziness,
in three provers. Pain all over the head, especially along the median
line. Pain in the frontal region, with heat at the root of the nose, in
three provers. Two small spots on the forehead, disappearing in a few
minutes. 25. Pain in the whole head, from the morning until 5 o’clock
in the evening. Acute pain in the left temporal region, in the morning,
on two consecutive days, in two provers. Headache, at times at the
vertex, at others at the occiput. Pain in the temples. Violent pain at
the vertex, evening. 30. Pressure in the frontal region. Headache on the
left side. Heaviness and dizziness in the frontal region, two days in
succession. Burning in the frontal region, ceasing after taking a cold
bath. Violent pain at the vertex, morning. 35. Vertigo with fainting.
Slight pain at the vertex. Inflammation of the left eye. Dark redness of
the face. Slight heat in the upper part of the œsophagus. 40. Sore throat
for eight days. Sense of swelling at the tongue. Toothache. Swelling of
the gums. Bad taste in the mouth. 45. Spitting up of mucus. Heat and
dryness at the anterior and superior part of the œsophagus, in three
provers. Slight pain on each side of the thyroid cartilage. Appetite
when rising in the morning, in two provers. Stomach-ache for three days.
50. Decrease of the appetite. Pain in the abdomen, with internal heat.
Violent colic with pulling, in two provers. Constipation, the first days,
in eight provers. Red urine. 55. Yellow sediment in the urine. Numbness
of the left scapular region. Pain at the left shoulder. Numbness of the
arm, worse when hanging down. Numbness of both arms. 60. Deep-seated pain
in the left forearm. Numbness of the right index- and middle-finger. Pain
in the left wrist-joint. Deep-seated pain under the right breast. Pain at
the right knee. 65. Deep-seated pain in the calves. Pain at the forepart
of the left leg, for four days. Laming pain of the legs and thighs for
several days. Deep-seated pain, first in the left, then in the right
thigh. Numbness of the left leg and heel. 70. Shooting stitch in the
right knee.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

MENTAL, MORAL, HEAD: 1. Vertigo with fainting. Dizziness. Pain all
over the head. Headache, at the vertex and at times at the occiput. 5.
Pressure in the frontal region. Burning in the frontal region. Pain in
the left temporal region, also acute. Pain in the frontal region, also
with heat, at the root of the nose.

EYES, &c.: Inflammation of the left eye. 10. Swelling of the gums.

MOUTH, STOMACH, &c.: Sense of swelling at the tongue. Sore throat. Heat
in upper part of the œsophagus. Bad taste in the mouth. 15. Decrease of
appetite. Stomach-ache for some days. Pain in abdomen, with internal
heat. Colic, with pulling. Constipation. 20. Red urine. Yellow sediment
in the urine. Deep-seated pain under the right breast. Pain on each side
of the thyroid cartilage. Numbness of the left scapular region.

EXTREMITIES: 25. Pain at left shoulder. Deep-seated pain in left
forearm. Numbness of the index- and middle-finger. Numbness of the arms.
Deep-seated pain in the calves. 30. Laming pain of the legs and thighs.
Deep-seated pain in the thighs. Numbness of the left leg and heel.
Shooting stitch in the right knee.

SLEEP: Quarrelsome dreams. 35. Reveries. Dreams about dead persons and
about teeth falling out. He dreams that he is flying along an illuminated
street. Burning of the skin all over, with stinging. Profuse sweat in
bed. 40. Shuddering, repeatedly. Red spot on the right cheek, when rising
from bed, also on the neck. Prostration, also moral.




BUFO SAHYTIENSIS. (NOBIS.)

BUFO. BUFO AGUA (LAT.) TOAD.

[Illustration]


This toad is found all over America; it inhabits swamps and marshy
regions. It is as big as two fists, though its size varies a good deal.
It is readily known by its enormous rhomboïdal parotids, whence it sends
forth a large quantity of poison. Its head is flat, triangular, more
large than long; it shows a strong osseous edge, commencing at the tip of
the muzzle, thence stretching towards the inner angle of the eye, round
this organ, and finally terminating behind the lids. The eye and the
tympanic wall are very large. The trunk, which is very large anteriorly,
in consequence of the large development of the parotides, is covered,
on each side of the dorsal spine, with two irregular rows of large
elliptical or conical bladders; sometimes there are such bladders on the
sides. The anterior extremities do not reach to the end of the trunk; the
posterior extremities reach beyond the muzzle by the length of the fourth
toe. The toes are rather flattened; the first toe is longer than the
second. Its colors are various, consisting of a number of brown spots,
which coalesce on the back, and are separated on the abdomen by yellowish
dots.

The horrible croaking of these animals is well known, and might rouse the
indignation of the most phlegmatic individual.

By exciting the animal, we caused it to spirt its saliva, which we
collected on a little sugar of milk, and at once prepared, by trituration.


Prover: _Bruno Vidal._

_First day._—1. Extreme heaviness of the head, at 2. Aversion to work,
with inability, the whole afternoon.

_Second day._—Pain at the sacrum, worse when rising, stooping or sitting.
Almost continual expansive pressure in the orbits, and sensation of
internal itching; he is obliged to rub his eyes with the palm of his
hand. 5. Itching at the pubis. Itching at the face. Violent itching at
the lips.

_Third day._—Pain at the inner part of the right knee. Easy stool. 10.
Itching, almost all over. Not disposed to study. Less active than usual.
Expansive pressure and itching in the orbits. The pain at the sacrum
continues.

_Fourth day._—15. The pain at the sacrum is less; the pain at the knee
has ceased. Expansive pressure and itching in the orbits. Itching almost
all over. Constant erections without desire; not disposed to intellectual
labor, not very active.

_Fifth to tenth day._—Laziness of mind as before. 20. Constant
erections, but no desire. Itching and expansive sensation in the orbits.

_Eleventh day._—No sleep.

_Twelfth day._—Prickling at the right big toe.

_Thirteenth day._—Crampy pain at the outer side of the right leg. 25. Red
pimple, which breaks and leaves a black spot in its place. Pricking in
the pit of the stomach. Pinching at the inside of the left elbow.

_Fourteenth to fifteenth day._—Pressure at the cartilages of the false
ribs. Loathing of study.

_Seventeenth to eighteenth day._—30. The eyes are red and smart. A former
fungus bleeds. The orbits feel larger, and as if they were in contact
with the orbital walls. Aversion to work. He is apt to forget things
which he had been occupied with a moment ago.

_Nineteenth day._—35. The eyes smart and are painful when touched.

_Twentieth to Thirty-fifth day._—Careless. Lazy and discouraged. No
disposition to work. Weak memory. 40. The upper portion of the orbits
seems to be in contact with the orbital walls, especially at night. He
is obliged to rub his face in the morning. Formication of the lower jaw.
Itching at the lumbar vertebræ. Itching at the anus. 45. A black spot on
the right outer ankle, which had remained after a pimple, continues.

_Thirty-sixth day._—Large red pimple on the occiput.

_Thirty-eighth day._—Very gay in the evening. Disposed to talk about
merry things.

_Thirty-ninth day._—Gay. Lively. 50. The pimple at the nape of the neck
remains. Itching at the lumbar vertebræ. Pain in front of the lobule
of the left ear. Ganglion on the sole of the right foot. Excoriation
of the left masseter muscle, discharging a little sanguinolent humor.
55. Heaviness of the head after a walk. The eyes smart and are painful
when touched. Sleeps for an hour, in the middle of the day, contrary to
habit. Sad, he avoids company. He is unable to act with decision, he
forms projects and does not accomplish them. 60. Tingling in the lumbar
region. Dreams every night, does not recollect his dreams on waking.
Pressure on the right side of the forehead. Taciturn and gloomy. Painful
sensation under the false ribs. 65. Itching at the sacrum. (Sense of
weakness in the whole left side of the head.) Prickings in the tips of
the fingers of the right hand and the left toes. Pimples on the forehead.
Weakness of mind and memory, less in the evening. 70. Acute lancinations
in the left temple. Acute pain in the right wrist. Continual headache.
Pain in the extensor muscles of the right arm. Pimple on the right wrist.
75. Violent itching. Drowsy. Poetical and philosophical dreams. Exalted
imagination.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

1. Sad, he avoids company. Exalted imagination. Indolence of mind. Merry
and talkative. 5. Pressure on the right side of the forehead. Darting
in the left temple. Heaviness of the head. Expansive pressure in the
orbits, and sensation of internal itching. The eyes are red and smart.
10. The orbits feel larger, and as if in contact with the orbital walls.
Formication of the lower jaw. Violent itching at the lips. Itching of the
pubis. Erections without desire. 15. Pain under the false ribs. Tingling
in the lumbar region. Pain at the sacrum, worse when rising. Itching at
the lumbar vertebræ. Prickings in the tips of the right fingers. 20.
Acute pain in the right wrist. Pain at the right knee. Prickling at
the big toe. Poetical dreams. Red pimple, leaving a black spot after
breaking. 25. Excoriation at the left masseter muscle. Aversion to work.
Itching all over.




JACARANDA CAROBA. (D.C.)

JAC. BIGNONIA CAROBA. (WELL.)

[Illustration]


This is a tree with white wood, the ramose top of which attains a height
of from 20 to 28 feet. Leaves pennate, tri- or quadrijugate, composed
of from five to nine opposite, sessile, glabrous and oval folioles.
Flowers large, violet-colored, on pedicles that are expanded at their
extremities, and forming ramose terminal panicles. Calix tubulous,
with five teeth, corolla tubulous, slightly pubescent externally, and
expanding at its summit into a limb with five obtuse divisions. Stamens
five, one of which is rudimentary; ovary avoïd, surmounted by a simple
style terminating in a bilamellary stygma. The husks are linear and flat.
The caroba is very common in Brazil, in gardens and on plantations; it
blossoms in September. We employ the flower.

Several varieties of the caroba are used in Brazil for the treatment of
syphilitic diseases. For our provings we have selected the Jacaranda
caroba, which has furnished results as complete as could be desired. We
consider this drug of great importance in the treatment of chancres.

_First day._—1. Stitch at the heart; the heart seems to beat slowly in
placing the hand upon it, at 9 in the evening. Stitch and pulling below
the stomach, on the right side, at midnight. Dryness and pricking all
over.

_Second day._—No sleep at night and drowsy in the day-time. 5. Dry mouth,
in the morning, in bed. One does not feel any longer the beats of the
heart, in the morning, in bed. The heart beats regularly again after
going into the open air. Painful stitch at the heart, almost constantly.
Full and slow pulse, in the morning, in bed. Weary while talking. 10.
Drawing pain on the right side, from the axilla to the false ribs, at
9 in the morning. Dull pain under the sternum, in raising the head
and drawing breath. He eats little, though his appetite is good, at 9
in the morning. General weakness, in the morning. Slight pain at the
articulation of the second phalanx of the fingers of the right hand,
at half past 9 in the morning. 15. Weakness of the legs. Pain as if
bruised in the right knee, while walking, at 10 in the morning, of short
duration. Sense as if bruised in the muscles and bones of the legs.
Slight drawing pain from the eye to the right lower jaw, followed by
shuddering in the same region, at 11 in the morning; this pain recurs,
changing to a contusive pain. Sensitiveness of the malar bone when
pressing on it with the finger. 20. Sensation of painfulness at the
apex of the heart, on the right side, at noon. Hurried breathing, with
sense of fullness under the sternum, several times in the course of
the day. Painful stitch under the false right ribs, at noon. No stool.
Momentary drawing in the flexor communis digitorum, left wrist, at half
past 12, afternoon. 25. Pulling from the lower extremity of the forearm
to the right little finger, for one hour. Weariness of the limbs, and
desire to remain seated. Weakness of the limbs; and lumbar region, at 2.
Slight pain in the right ribs, below, at half past 2. Painful fullness
in the right temple, shifting a moment after to the left temple, and
disappearing in the left side of the nape of the neck, in the evening,
in the open air. 30. Sense of fullness in the head, in the afternoon.
Dull pain between the forehead and right temple; it disappears in the
evening, by shifting to the opposite side. Pain as if excoriated at the
left side of the tongue. Pulling from the lower jaw to the middle of
the neck, on the right side, in the evening. Fullness in the pit of the
stomach, with feeble, hurried breathing; sometimes a strong and long
inspiration, with strong and sudden expiration, in the afternoon. 35.
Lancinating pain in the region of the heart. Continued prickings under
the sternum. Painful stitch on the left side of the navel. Sensation,
while walking, as of dull thorns or little pieces of straw between the
thighs, or as if stiff and dry moss is applied to a raw sore. Itching at
the anus, while sitting. 40. Pain at the left elbow, striking through
the whole forearm by fits and starts, in the evening. Dull pain in the
right wrist-joints, penetrating to the middle of the forearm; a similar
sensation at the left arm, but slighter. Pain as if bruised in the bones
of the right forearm, and lancination from the wrist to the forearm, at
6 in the evening. Acute deep-seated, drawing pain under the left last
rib, at 6 in the evening. Palpitation of the heart in going up- and
down-stairs, with acute pain, as if it were pushed with the tip of the
finger, at 9 in the evening.

_Third day._—45. Doughy mouth, at 6 in the morning. The heart seems to
beat in the pit of the stomach, at 6 in the morning; its beats are no
longer felt under the left breast. The beating of the heart recommences
during motion, but is slow and feeble. Noise in the ears, like the
flapping of the wings of a butterfly, at 8 in the morning. Sneezing
and fluent discharge from the nose, at half past 8 in the morning.
50. Itching at the left commissure of the lips, at 9 in the morning.
Fatiguing drawing pain in the anterior cervical muscles, extending to
the right ear, at half past 9 in the morning. Colic; flatulence shifts
about in the abdomen, followed by emission of inodorous flatulence, at
half past 9 in the morning. Painful stitch in the integuments of the
abdomen, between the navel and the pit of the stomach, a little on the
right side, at 10 in the morning. Dull pain above the wrist and in the
radius, at half past 10 in the morning. 55. Dull crampy pain in the right
elbow, shifting afterwards to the left elbow. Pain as if bruised in the
right side, at a quarter of 11 in the morning. Painful stitch at the
heart, shifting at once to the other side, as if one had two hearts, at
11 in the morning. Extensive aching pain from the right upper part of
the forehead to the eye, at noon. Slight pain in the right temple, as
if several dull points were pressed upon it at the same time; dull pain
in the right orbit. 60. Coryza at half past 12. Mouth dry and doughy.
Sensation in the skin as if grasped, on the right side of the navel, at
one in the evening. No stool. Lancination from the elbow to the middle
of the forearm, thence to the left wrist, from 9 to 3 in the evening.
65. Stoppage of the nose, at 3 in the evening. Boring pain at the right
external carotid, at half past 3 in the evening. Vertical pullings above
the pit of the stomach, at 4 in the evening.

_Fourth day._—Stiffness of the loins and pain in the abdomen and
hypochondria as if bruised, at 6 in the morning. Soft and easy stool,
(previous to the proving the stools were generally hard and painful.)
70. The inflammation of the anus has disappeared. Coryza, with heaviness
and weariness at the vertex, forehead and eyes, at 9 in the morning.
Coryza, with digging, lancinating pain in the left side of the forehead,
corresponding to the palatine arch of the same side, at noon. Dry lips,
mouth and tongue. Intense itching between the left ring- and little
finger, and a red, itching spot on the second phalangeal joint of the
ring-finger. 75. A red spot, with a yellowish pellicle and itching at
the forepart of the wrists, at noon. Heat at the left ear, with burning
digging pain extending to the left nostril, at half past 2 in the
evening. Sensation as if the left ear were stopped up, at half past 3 in
the afternoon.

_Fifth day._—The coryza has ceased.

_Sixth day._—80. Dreams about objects, which he defends courageously
against thieves, who lay a thousand snares for him; also about unknown
fruits, which he desires to taste, but which disappear immediately. Dull
pain at the outer side of the right eyebrow, passes off in the open air.
Acute pain in the left testicle, when walking. A good deal of appetite.
Rheumatic pain in the right knee, it disappears by motion. 85. Slight
pinching at the extremity of the prepuce. Dull pain in the right temporal
region, at 10 in the morning.

_Seventh to thirteenth day._—Slight pains in the left testicle when
walking, or by the pressure of the clothes.

_Fourteenth day._—Heat and swelling of the scrotum, near the left groin,
with pain when rubbing or touching it. Slight suppuration between the
glans and prepuce, on the right side.

_Fifteenth day._—90. The swelling of the scrotum is less, the suppuration
of the glans worse.

_Sixteenth day._—Itching at the forehead, as if mosquitoes were walking
about there.

_Eighteenth day._—The swelling of the scrotum has disappeared, the
testicle is less painful; the suppuration has spread to the outer side
of the prepuce, without affecting the glans. Swelling of the right
groin which is painful when touched. Pain as from a plug pressing
perpendicularly against the forehead, right side. 95. Violent sneezing.
Dreams about a frightful storm, with smashing and burning of palaces, or
crushing gigantic mountains, from which issue columns of smoke.

_Nineteenth day._—Profuse watery discharge from the nose. Food tastes
flat or acid, sugar-water tastes like vinegar.

_Twenty-first day._—Acute pain in the prepuce, as if a small bundle of
fibres were seized. 100. Prickling at the prepuce. Profuse discharge of
a yellowish white liquid from the prepuce, smelling like ordinary pus.
Heat and pain of the penis, the inflammation being worse in bed. The
prepuce cannot be drawn back. General malaise, nausea, debility. 105.
The swelling of the scrotum has entirely ceased. The testicle remains a
little swollen and painful. (The excrescence at the anus has considerably
decreased for eight days past.) Dreams about combats, dead persons; he
picks up very small heads, which had been partially calcined on a pan
with coals; these heads opened their eyes and spoke to him in an angry
tone.

_Twenty-second day._—The pain and inflammation of the prepuce are less.
110. The pain in the testicle keeps decreasing. Very weary in the
evening, he has to lie down. The suppuration and inflammation of the
prepuce augment in the evening, the whole prepuce is affected. Itching at
the scrotum.

_Twenty-third day._—Acute pain, with lancinations at the anus, as if
a large needle were stuck in three or four times. 115. Prostration; a
trifling exercise fatigues him and compels him to lie down. Weariness of
the knees. Sensation of a greenish-yellow pus from the prepuce.

_Twenty-fourth day._—Profuse secretion of a greenish-yellow liquid from
the prepuce. The internal membrane of the prepuce is inflamed.

_Twenty-fifth day._—120. Itching at the anus, in the morning. The
inflammation of the prepuce is less on the right side, it shifts to the
left. Itching and prickling at the margin of the prepuce. Emission of a
light colored urine, four or five times a day.

_Twenty-sixth day._—The inflammation on the inner side of the prepuce has
ceased, whereas the margin has become inflamed over night; and it is raw
and bleeds here and there. 125. The contact of the urine causes tearing
pains, which affect the whole organism, and leave a considerable malaise
behind. The nervous system, head and neck are painfully affected by
these pains. The orifice of the urethra looks like two small lips, which
are inflamed on the inner side; on touching them, a slight itching is
experienced there, extending to the middle of the penis.

_Twenty-seventh day._—130. Internal chilliness, as if the blood would
freeze in the vessels, in the open air, for fifteen minutes. Erections,
which the continual swelling of the prepuce renders painful. Total
suppression of the sexual desire, with relaxation of the penis.

_Twenty-eighth day._—Sound sleep. The inflammation and suppuration of the
glans diminish considerably in the morning.

_Twenty-ninth day._—135. He is able to take a long walk without getting
tired.


SECOND PROVING.

_First day._—Sense of constriction at the throat, until evening.
Rheumatic pain in the left shoulder-blade.

_Second day._—The pain in the shoulder-blade continues until evening.

_Third day._—Restless sleep; frightful dreams. 140. Dull pains in the
head, in the day-time.

_Fourth day._—Itching pimple at the glans, of the size of half a grain of
corn.

_Fifth day._—Restless sleep, and eccentric dreams. Painless suppuration
of the pimple on the glans; with itching; it looks like a chancre.
Heaviness of the head, which is painful all day.

_Sixth day._—145. Restless night; sleep is frequently disturbed, with
extreme difficulty to fall asleep again. The chancrous pimple on the
glans has dried up; there remains in its place a red point; the place is
not painful. The throat is very dry.

_Seventh day._—Restless at night, with uneasy and unrefreshing sleep.

_Eighth day._—Rheumatic pain in the right calf. Restless night.

_Ninth day._—150. Sleep more quiet. The pain in the calf continues; it is
intense and hinders walking.

_Tenth day._—Sore throat, with constriction of the pharynx and difficult
deglutition. The pain in the calf has shifted to the shoulder blade,
extending from the last ribs to the neck. The neck is so painful that it
is only with difficulty and pain that the head can be turned to the right
side.

_Eleventh day._—155. Similar pain in the shoulder-blade and neck. The
constriction of the throat continues.

_Twelfth day._—Same symptoms as on the eleventh, but less intense. No
sleep at night, and drowsy in the day-time. Pain in the nape of the
neck. 160. Pain under the sternum. Weariness and prostration. Emission
every night. Heat at the anus. Prickings around the anus. 165. Fever.
Prostration, so that he is scarcely able to speak. Dry cough. Cough,
with white, watery expectoration. Ulcers on the legs. 170. Pains in the
joints. Sore eyes. Pain in the right leg. Bad taste in the mouth, in the
morning. Headache, in the day-time. 175. Catarrh. Pressure at the pit of
the stomach. Nausea when eating. Pain in the back and chest. Acute pain
at the hypogastrium, when pressing upon it. 180. He wakes with a start,
twice in the night. He dreams loud all night. Pain in the left arm, in
the morning. Redness at the left arm. Painful stitch under the right
ribs, when drawing breath, for half an hour.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

HEAD, &c.: Dull pain in right temple, as if several points were pressed
upon it. Frontal headache. Dull pain between the forehead and right
temple, shifting to the other side and there disappearing. Sense of
fullness in the head. Painful fullness in right temple, shifting to the
left and disappearing in the nape of the neck. Pain in right side of
forehead as from a plug pressing against it. Itching at the forehead
as from vermin crawling about there. Heaviness of the head, it aches
all day. Sore eyes. Flapping in the ears as of wings. Stoppage of the
left ear. Heat at the left ear, with burning digging pain extending to
the left nostril. The malar bone is sensitive to pressure. Drawing pain
from the eye to the right lower jaw, followed by shuddering in the same
region. Sneezing and fluent coryza. Coryza, with heaviness and weariness
at the vertex, forehead and eyes. Coryza, with digging and lancing pain
in left side of forehead. He dreams about fighting with thieves. Catarrh.

GASTRIC, &c.: Food tastes flat or acid. Bad taste in the mouth, in the
morning. Nausea when eating. Dry mouth, in the morning, in bed. Raw
pain at left side of the tongue. Mouth dry and doughy. Sore throat with
constriction of the pharynx and difficult deglutition. Constrictive
sensation at the throat. Stitch and pulling below the stomach. Fullness
in pit of stomach, with hurried breathing. Pulling from above downwards
in the pit of the stomach. Pressure at the pit of the stomach. Bruising
pain in right side. Painful stitch in the integuments of the abdomen,
between the navel and the pit of the stomach. Colic with flatulence.
Acute drawing pain under the left last rib. Painful stitch on the left
side of the navel. Swelling of the right groin, painful when touched.
Sensation on right side of navel, as if the skin were seized. Acute pain
at the hypogastrium when pressing upon it. No stool. Soft and easy stool.
Itching at the anus while sitting. Heat at the anus. Prickings around the
anus. Acute pain with lancination in the anus. Excrescence at the anus.
The orifice of the urethra looks like two small inflamed lips, itching
when touched. Heat and pain of the penis. Discharge of a yellowish white
liquid from the prepuce. Prickling in the prepuce. Pain in prepuce, as if
a small bundle of fibres were seized. The prepuce cannot be drawn back.
Suppuration between the glans and prepuce. Acute pain in left testicle
when walking. Heat and swelling of the scrotum. Slight pinching at the
prepuce. Emission every night. Itching pimple at the glans, suppurating
like a chancre, and leaving a red point when dry. Suppression of the
sexual desire. Painful erections, owing to the swelling of the prepuce.
The contact of the urine causes tearing pains, which affect the whole
organism. Itching and prickling at the margin of the prepuce.

CHEST: Dry cough, with white, watery expectoration. Painful stitch under
the right ribs, when drawing breath. Drawing pain from the right axilla
to the false ribs. Dull pain under the sternum when raising the head
and drawing breath. Hurried breathing, with sense of fullness under the
sternum. Painful stitch under the false right ribs. Prickings under the
sternum. Pain at the apex of the heart. Lancing pain in the region of the
heart. Palpitation in going up- or down-stairs, as if pushed with the tip
of the finger. Sensation as if the heart beat in the pit of the stomach.
Painful stitch at the heart, shifting to the right side. Stitch at the
heart, which seems to beat slowly. The beats of the heart are not felt in
the morning, in bed. Drawing pain from the front part of the neck to the
ear. Pulling from the lower jaw to the middle of the neck. Boring pain at
the right external carotid. The neck is so painful that the turning the
head is difficult and painful. Weakness of the lumbar region.

EXTREMITIES: Rheumatic pain in left shoulder-blade. Pain in the back and
chest. Pain in the left arm, in the morning. Redness at the left arm.
Dull crampy pain in right elbow, shifting to the left. Pulling from the
forearm to the right little finger. Pain from the left elbow through
the forearm. Bruising pain in the bones of the right forearm, with
lancination. Dull pain from the wrist-joint to the middle of the forearm.
Red spot with a yellowish pellicle on the wrists. Drawing in the flexor
communis digitorum. Red, itching spot on the ring-finger. Sense as of
thorns between the thighs when walking. Ulcers on the legs. Pain in the
right leg. Weakness of the legs. Bruising pain in the legs. Rheumatic
pain in the right calf. Rheumatic pain in right knee, disappearing by
motion. Bruising pain in the right knee.

SLEEP: No sleep at night. Dreams about a frightful storm, mountains
from which smoke issues, &c. Restless sleep, with frightful dreams.
Dreams about combats, calcined head, which spoke to him angrily, &c.
Loud dreams. Fever. Internal chilliness. Dryness and prickings all over.
Weariness of the limbs. Weakness in the morning. Weary while talking.
Malaise, nausea, debility. Stiffness of the loins, and bruising pain in
the abdomen and hypochondria. Pains in the joints. Prostration; he is
easily tired. Weary in the evening.




CANNA ANGUSTIFOLIA.

C. ANG. CANNA GLAUCA. PORTUG.: IMBIRI.

[Illustration]


This plant inhabits damp regions, or the borders of brooks. Its stem
is erect, cylindrical, growing to a height of about six feet out of a
rhizoma sending off numerous rootlets. It is provided with knots, whence
arise large alternate clasping leaves, whose lanceolate limbs have strong
midribs, sending off fine parallel transverse nerves. At its summit the
stem bears the flower-bearing pedicels. Flowers alternate, on short
peduncles, and accompanied by bracts. The corol has a double perianth,
with three divisions adhering to the triangular, greenish and glandular
ovary; the stamens present the changing characters so common in this
family. We use the leaves.

An infusion of the leaves was recommended for the lepra; but this
empirical application of the drug has been abandoned. 1. Whitish
expectoration in the morning. Numbness at the instep. He dreams about
doctors, treatment. Vertigo on waking. 5. Heat at the anus. Lancinations
at the feet, legs and hands. Pain in the chest. Swelling of the fingers.
Weakness of sight. 10. Itching of the skin. Weariness in the chest.
Peeling off of the skin. Roughness in the throat. Excited sexual desire.
15. Too sudden emission of the semen, and without thrill. Heat at the
ears. Constipation.




HEDYSARUM ILDEFONSIANUM. (NOBIS.)

HED. DESMODIUM. PORTUG.: AMOR DO CAMPO. BARBA DE BOI. CARAPICHO. ENGL.:
BURDOCK.

[Illustration]


The brownish and ligneous stem of this plant is about three feet high;
it is ramose, pubescent, especially above. Leaves alternate, pennate,
trifoliate; folioles oval and slightly tomentose, on a hairy, bistipulate
petiole. The flowers which are small and seated on filiform, unifloral
peduncles, form loose, terminal spikes. Fruit oval, hairy, on bent
peduncles, and attaching itself very intimately to clothes and to the
hairy skin of animals, on which account the Brazilians call it barba de
boi.

1. Painful tearing from the loins to the navel. This pain is less on the
second day. Sudden appearance of a yellowish discharge from the urethra.
No sleep for several nights. 5. Itching of the penis. Pain and pricking
at the eyes. The fingers contract with pain. Redness and smarting at
the penis. Diarrhœa. 10. Profuse urination. Pain in the upper and lower
limbs. Smarting in the eye, with lachrymation. Redness of the sclerotica.
Fever and rheumatic pains. 15. Constipation. Painful swelling of the
penis, with erysipelatous inflammation. Thin stream of the urine, in
consequence of the glans being swollen.




MYRISTICA SEBIFERA. (SWARTZ.)

MYR. VIROLA SEBIFERA (AUBLET). PORT.: UCUUBA.

[Illustration]


This is a tree of some height, the trunk and branches of which are
covered with a thick, brownish and reticulate bark. Leaves alternate,
oblong, cordate, rather tomentose on their lower surface, and supported
by short petioles. Flowers in tufted panicles, ramose, arising from
the axil of the leaves or the extremities of the branches; they are
dioïchous, with a simple, urceolate perigone having three divisions.
Male flowers with six stamens, the filaments of which are attached to
each other, and are inserted in a glandular disk. The female flowers are
smaller, one unilocular, ovary, style wanting, stygma bilobed. Capsular
berry, with two valves, containing an oleaginous seed, surrounded by an
aril crenated above. This tree is found in the provinces of Para and
Rio-Negro. We use the red juice which is acrid and very poisonous and is
obtained by cutting into the bark.

_First day._—1. Vertigo from right to left, on waking in the morning.
Difficulty of swallowing the saliva. Constriction of the isthmus of the
pharynx; this pain increases progressively. Pain and pressure from within
outwards at the right frontal eminence. 5. This pain intermits now and
then and is less in the open air. Pain in the finger-nails, with swelling
of the phalanxes. Painful pinching in the right calf.

_Second day._—He is unable to fall asleep in the evening, in bed.
Confused dreams about houses which one is building, commencing at the
upper stories. 10. The buccal cavity, the tonsils and the upper part of
the pharynx are painful to contact, the soup, when chewing or swallowing
it, seems to make these parts sore. Burning sensation in the throat. The
urine is discharged less frequently. Dizziness, in the morning. He is
indifferent and careless in regard to his business. 15. Sensation as if
a foreign body, of the size of a walnut, had lodged in the interior of
the left inguinal region, the whole morning. The face is highly colored.
Tingling in the left thumb-joint. Stiff hands as from squeezing something
in one’s hands for a long time. Pain in the left hand; thirst. 20. He
swallows his saliva with less pain and more ease. The urine is scanty
and discharged less frequently, though he has drank a good deal; it is
of a reddish yellow. The pains in the hands increase when the hands are
joined. He is in the habit of drinking two tumblers of water before going
to bed, and he urinates immediately afterwards; on the second day he
drinks in the evening, but does not urinate. Pinching at the right side
of the neck.

_Third day._—25. Restless sleep, he dreams about violent quarrels. Marked
copper-taste in the mouth, followed by spitting of blood for 20 minutes.
No urine since 5 o’clock in the evening, on the second day. Since 4 in
the afternoon he has been unable to fix his mind upon any one point; he
continually repeats in his mind a tune, which irritates him, and of which
he cannot rid himself. The whole mouth is painful. 30. Two pimples on the
left cheek, they disappear in an hour.

_Fourth day._—At night, hard pressure in the sides of the thorax, though
this does not hinder the breathing. Restless sleep, with dreams about
occupations that are entirely different from his ordinary business;
afterwards dreams about disputes. Tongue white-coated and cracked. His
head feels heavy. 35. Stools mixed with yellow mucus. Bitter mouth.
Palate insensible, with loss of taste.

_Fifth day._—Restless sleep. Violent starting during sleep. 40. Pain at
the frontal eminence, at noon. He is unable to concentrate his attention
on one object, though he has important business to attend to.


ARRANGEMENT ACCORDING TO HAHNEMANN.

Indifferent and careless about business. He keeps repeating a tune
against his will; this irritates him. Quarrelsome dreams. Is unable to
fix his mind. Vertigo from right to left. Painful pressure at frontal
eminence from within outwards. Pain at the frontal eminences. Pimples on
the left cheek. Coppery taste in the mouth. Constriction of the pharynx,
painful. Soreness of the mouth, tonsils and pharynx. Tongue white-coated
and cracked. Difficulty of swallowing saliva. Sensation as if a small
body had lodged in the left inguinal region. Stools mixed with yellow
mucus. Scanty urine, with less frequent discharges. Hard pressures in
the sides of the thorax, at night. Pinching at the right side of the
neck. Stiffness of the hands. Tingling in left thumb-joint. Pain at the
finger-nails, with swelling of the phalanxes. Painful pinching in right
calf. Confused dreams about building houses. No sleep in the evening.




OCIMUM CANUM. (D. C.)

OCIM. OCIMUM INCANESCENS (Mart.) OCIMUM FLUMINENSE (WELLS.) PORTUG.:
ALFAVACA.

[Illustration]


This is an herbaceous plant having an aromatic odor, with an erect and
ramose stem, about 16 or 20 inches high; it is pubescent, quadrangular
and grooved towards the upper branches. Leaves opposite, oval, finely
indented, on petioles of the same length, as the limbs of the leaves.
Flowers whorled, forming terminal spikes; each whorl is provided with
two foliaceous bracts. Calix with five divisions, the upper being oval,
large and entire; the other four are sharp and inferior. Corol tubulous,
inverted, with a bilabiate limb; the upper lip divided into four lobes;
the lower lip composed of a single lobe, which is longer. Stamens four,
with free and outward-bent filaments, and two other stamens, which are
shorter and somewhat geniculate at their base; style filiform and bifid.
Root vertical, fibrous, rather ramose. We use the leaves.

The ocimum canum is destined to become one of the most important remedial
agents in Brazil, where it is used as a specific for the diseases of the
kidneys, bladder and urethra. Those who wish to devote themselves to our
art, had better set about proving this drug.

1. Turbid urine, depositing a white and albuminous sediment. Burning
during micturition. Urine of a saffron color. Diarrhœa, several attacks
a day. 5. Crampy pain in the kidneys. Renal colic, with violent vomiting
every 15 minutes; one wrings one’s hands, and moans and cries all the
time. Red urine with brick-dust sediment after the attack. Itching at the
breasts. Engorgement of the mammary glands. 10. The tips of the breasts
are very painful; the least contact extorts a cry. Compressive pain in
the breast, as is the case with wet-nurses. Dreams about being poisoned.
Dreams about her parents, friends, children. Lancinations in the labia
majora. Swelling of the whole vulva. 15. Falling of the vagina, so as to
issue even from the vulva. Thick, purulent urine, with an intolerable
smell of musk. Swelling of the inguinal glands. Heat, swelling and
excessive sensibility of the left testicle. Numbness of the right thigh,
for two days.




SOLANUM ARREBENTA. (VELL.)

SOL. AR. PORTUG.: ARREBENTA CAVALLOS.

[Illustration]


This bush grows spontaneously in the provinces of Rio Janeiro, along
roads and in cultivated places. It is from 10 to 16 inches high; its
branches which bifurcate regularly, are, while young, covered with strong
thorns growing from above downwards. Leaves slightly pubescent, cordate,
with five obtuse lobes; their nerves are furnished with a few irregularly
distributed thorns. The flowers are supported by peduncles arising from
the axils of the leaves in groups of two or three. Calix with five parts,
very prickly on the outside; corol with five divisions; five stamens; a
style. Berry red, fleshy, with two chambers, containing a large number
of small seeds. Roots fibrous, arising from a common rhizoma. We use the
leaves.

1. Loss of appetite. Superficial ulceration below the left nipple.
Vertigo after bathing. Painful boil below the right axilla. 5. Pain at
the pectoralis major. Suppuration of the boils. Headache. Slight fever.
Swelling of the stomach. 10. Difficult digestion. Urticaria. Dreams about
quarrels and murders. Waking with a start. Doughy mouth in the morning.
15. Constant thirst. Impatient and irritated by trifling causes. Redness
of the face, and rush of blood to the brain. Flash of heat all over.
Paleness and greenish color of the skin after a few days of proving. 20.
Swelling of the axillary glands. Lancinations in the breasts. Glandular
tumor in the right breast.




ILLICIUM ANISATUM.

ANISUM STELLATUM.


Both the illicium anisatum and the millefolium, which have been
introduced into our practice empirically, will undoubtedly become
important adjuncts in the homœopathic materia medica, the former in
gastric affections, the latter in those of the chest. We publish the
following symptoms in the hope of facilitating their employment in the
treatment of disease.

1. Dizziness. Buzzing in the ears. Ringing in the ears, followed by
sleep. Bloating of the stomach. 5. Retention of urine. Pain in the loins.
Bilious stools. Acute catarrh. Constipation. 10. Pain in the spleen. Heat
from the abdomen to the stomach and chest, shifting about here and there,
and decreases in the course of the day. 15. Rumbling in the abdomen. Acid
stomach. Satiety after eating but little. Nausea. Uncertain pains in the
head. The pains are less in the evening and worse in the morning. Flow of
saliva. Watery discharge from the nostrils. 20. The stools are compact
and dark-colored. Drowsy at twilight. Pain at the spleen. Heat at the
navel and in the œsophagus. Violent erections. Nocturnal emissions. 25.
Pains in the chest, also the left side, and feeling of emptiness after
coughing. Pain in the back and chest. White expectoration. Disturbed
sleep.




MILLEFOLIUM.


_Second day._—1. Headache as if the skull would fly to pieces. Stitches
in the chest. Oppression, dyspnœa. Burning eyes. 5. Tongue coated and
swollen. Urine red, frequent and copious.

_Third day._—Headache less violent. Prostration. Malaise in all the
limbs. 10. Dry mouth. Lips cracked. Stomach-ache. Cough with frothy
expectoration. Cough and vomiting. 15. Fever with shuddering, internal
and external heat, for four hours. Hot fever. Thirst. Hot hands and feet.




FOOTNOTES


[1] This case has been reported in detail, in the Medical Gazette of
Paris, of the 5th of January, 1839, by the attending physicians, _Maïa_
and _Reis_. We transcribe it for the benefit of our readers.

Mariano José Machado, fifty years old, of athletic form, bilious-sanguine
temperament, was afflicted with elephantiasis leontina Alibert. The whole
body, especially the extremities, were insensible. The skin and the
cellular tissue were thickened, hard, rugose and covered with tubercles
which were somewhat raised but not ulcerated. A few pustules under the
arms, looked like itch-pustules, and seemed to indicate a complication
with this disease. The epidermis and nails began to alter, and the
fingers had lost their normal shape. Internally, the patient felt quite
well, enjoying both vigor of mind and body. After six years of suffering,
he had come to the determination to try this dreadful experiment, which
would either lead to death or a deliverance from his horrible affliction.

On the morning of the fourth of September, at fifty minutes past eleven
o’clock, he was bit by a rattle-snake, the crotalus cascavella, in
the two last fingers near the metacarpus. He felt neither the bite,
nor the poison as it penetrated into the wound. A few drops of blood
came out of the wound, and the hand began immediately to swell.—In
five minutes: slight feeling of coldness in the hands.—Twelve o’clock:
slight pain in the hollow of the hands.—Twenty minutes: the hand swells
a good deal.—Thirty minutes: swelling of the jugular veins. Alteration
of the features. Formication in the face.—Fifty-five minutes: the
sense of swelling extends through the whole forearm.—Twenty minutes
past one: trembling of the whole body.—Thirty-six minutes past one:
the head is affected, with frequent pulse, difficulty of moving the
lips, disposition to slumber, constriction of the throat, violent pain
in the whole arm, the hand swells more and more.—Thirty-eight minutes
past one: sense of chilliness; the patient covers himself.—Forty-eight
minutes past one: pain in the tongue and larynx, increased pains and
swelling of the bitten hand; sense of coldness in the feet.—Twenty-five
minutes past two: difficulty of swallowing,—anguish,—copious sweat on
the chest.—Fifty minutes: weakness of the arms,—nosebleed,—anguish,
now and then,—restlessness,—pulse 96.—In three hours and forty
minutes: pulse 100.—Fifteen minutes: intensely violent pains in the
arms.—restlessness.—Thirty minutes: pulse 98,—red face,—continual
bleeding of the nose.—Thirty-five minutes: the patient drinks some wine
and water without any difficulty, and changes his linen which was all
wet from the perspiration.—Intense redness all over.—In four hours:
pulse 100,—the whole of the skin, especially on the bitten arm, is
very red,—violent pains in both arms, which do not leave the patient
any rest,—constriction of the throat,—impeded respiration.—Fifty
minutes: pulse 104,—the body is very hot all over,—flow of saliva.—In
five hours, thirty minutes: torpor,—copious emission of urine,—thick,
viscid saliva, which it is difficult to get out of the mouth,—muscular
debility,—frequent moaning on account of the pains which he feels
in the whole body,—quiet breathing,—pulse full and frequent, skin
soft,—the bitten hand swells enormously.—In seven hours: somnolence
with moaning,—after waking the pains in the arms are less, but he
experiences violent pains in the chest,—sensation of a lump in his
throat,—copious emission of urine,—great difficulty of swallowing, white,
viscid saliva,—discharge of a bloody liquid from the nose,—inability to
swallow a drink composed of water, sugar and brandy.—In eight hours:
the sweating abates,—restlessness,—moaning,—emission of urine.—In nine
hours, ten minutes: the moaning ceases,—deep sleep.—In ten hours: takes
an infusion of guaco,—pulse 108,—the bloody discharge from the nose
ceases,—shrivelling of the tuberculous formations on the arms and in
the face, they exhibit an erysipelatous redness.—In ten hours, twenty
minutes: emits two ounces of a natural urine,—a few minutes’ quiet
sleep, without moaning.—In ten hours, forty minutes: the pains abate
a good deal, but he complains of pains in the thighs and feet, where
he had felt a considerable coldness until now,—pulse 108,—ordinary
thirst,—the patient sits up in order to drink, and swallows the drink
with ease.—In eleven hours: takes four spoonfuls of a strong infusion
of guaco.—In eleven hours, forty-five minutes: emits a deeply-colored
urine,—pulse 119,—the bitten hand and arm are very much inflamed and
intensely painful,—restlessness.—In twelve hours: quiet sleep, disturbed
by eructations,—pulse 112,—emission of urine.—In twelve hours, thirty
minutes: restlessness,—screams,—despair.—In twelve hours, forty minutes:
emission of urine,—pulse 116,—sensation of burning heat in the legs,
which he uncovers.—In thirteen hours: emission of urine,—quiet,—he takes
an infusion of guaco.—In fourteen hours: he sits up in bed, and drinks
water, during which he moves about violently and screams.—In fifteen
hours: emission of urine,—the swelling of the lower lips abates,—the
salivation ceases.—In fifteen hours, forty-five minutes: pulse
110,—involuntary motion of the right thumb and left foot.—In seventeen
hours: the patient feels very sick,—pulse 100,—frequent moaning.—In
nineteen hours: excessive debility,—involuntary motion of the lower
jaw, and lower extremities,—bloody urine.—In twenty hours: accelerated,
intermitting pulse,—increase of the convulsive motions,—the swelling of
the extremities, and the redness of the skin are less,—extreme difficulty
of swallowing,—anxious respiration.—In twenty hours, fifty minutes:
diminution of the convulsive motions.—In twenty hours, fifty-five
minutes: the convulsions cease.—In twenty-one hours: he takes an ounce
of lizard-oil, which he swallows with difficulty.—In twenty-one hours,
thirty minutes: death.—In a few minutes, the blue-colored body, swoll
considerably.—Twenty-three hours after death, the body had swollen
enormously, was covered with blue and red spots, and smelt so horridly
that no post-mortem examination could be made.—HEMPEL.

[2] To avoid unnecessary repetition, the natural order of the
symptoms has been left out, it being nearly the same as Hahnemann’s
arrangement—_Ed._




TABLE OF CONTENTS.


                                              Page.

    Introduction,                                3

    Crotalus Cascavella,                         5

    Elaps Corallinus,                           22

    Pediculus Capitis,                          40

    Eleis Guineensis,                           45

    Mimosa Humilis,                             49

    Cervus Brazilicus,                          51

    Guano Australis,                            54

    Hippomane Mancinella,                       57

    Hura Braziliensis,                          65

    Lepidium Bonariense,                       101

    Panacea,                                   115

    Solanum Tuberosum Ægrotans,                117

    Plumbago Littoralis,                       138

    Solanum Oleraceum,                         142

    Paullinia Pinnata,                         144

    Blatta Americana,                          151

    Delphinus Amazonicus,                      153

    Amphisbœna Vermicularis,                   155

    Aristolochia Milhomens,                    157

    Resina Itu,                                162

    Tradescantia Diuretica,                    165

    Murure Leite,                              166

    Cannabis Indica,                           168

    Petiveria Tetrandra,                       170

    Janipha Manihot,                           182

    Melastoma Ackermani,                       185

    Sedinha,                                   187

    Spiggurus Martini,                         188

    Convolvulus Duartinus, Morning Glory,      192

    Bufo Sahytiensis, Toad,                    195

    Jacaranda Caroba,                          199

    Canna Angustifolia,                        209

    Hedysarum Ildefonsianum, (Burdock),        210

    Myristica Sebifera,                        211

    Ocimum Canum,                              214

    Solanum Arrebenta,                         216

    Illicium Anisatum,                         217

    Millefolium,                               218

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DR. B. MURE'S MATERIA
MEDICA ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
